SOURCE_ID: irs_p17
TITLE: IRS Publication 17 — Your Federal Income Tax (PDF)
URL: https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p17.pdf
---

[PAGE 1]
Userid: CPM Schema: tipx Leadpct: 100% Pt. size: 8  Draft  Ok to Print
AH XSL/XML Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source (Init. & Date) _______
Page 1 of 142  13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
TAX GUIDE
2025
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)
Publication 17 (2025)  Catalog Number 10311G
Jan 13, 2026 Department of the T reasury  Internal Revenue Service  www.irs.gov
Your Federal
Income Tax
For Individuals
Publication 17
For use in preparing
2025 Returns

[PAGE 2]
Page 2 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Your Federal
Income Tax
For Individuals
Contents
What’s New ....................... 1
Reminders ........................ 2
Introduction ....................... 3
Part One. The Income Tax Return .......... 6
1 Filing Information ................ 6
2 Filing Status ................... 21
3 Dependents ................... 26
4 T ax Withholding and Estimated T ax ..... 37
Part Two. Income and Adjustments
to Income ..................... 46
5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings .... 47
6 Interest Income ................. 54
7 Social Security and Equivalent Railroad
Retirement Benefits .............. 62
8 Other Income .................. 66
9 Individual Retirement Arrangements
(IRAs) ..................... 77
Part Three. Standard Deduction, Itemized
Deductions, and Other Deductions ...... 92
10 Standard Deduction .............. 92
11 T axes ...................... 96
12 Other Itemized Deductions ......... 101
Part Four. Figuring Your Taxes, and
Refundable and Nonrefundable Credits .. 106
13 How T o Figure Y our T ax........... 106
14 Child T ax Credit and Credit for Other
Dependents ................. 108
2025 Tax Table ..................... 111
2025 Tax Computation Worksheet ........ 123
2025 Tax Rate Schedules .............. 124
Your Rights as a Taxpayer ............. 126
How To Get Tax Help ................. 127
Index .......................... 129
Where To File ..................... 140
The explanations and examples in this publication
reflect the interpretation by the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) of:
• T ax laws enacted by Congress,
• T reasury regulations, and
• Court decisions.
However, the information given does not cover every
situation and is not intended to replace the law or change
its meaning.
All material in this
publication may be
reprinted freely. A
citation to Y our Federal
Income T ax (2025)
would be appropriate.
This publication covers some subjects on which a
court may have made a decision more favorable to
taxpayers than the interpretation by the IRS. Until these
differing interpretations are resolved by higher court
decisions or in some other way, this publication will
continue to present the interpretations by the IRS.
All taxpayers have important rights when working with
the IRS. These rights are described under Y our Rights as
a T axpayer in the back of this publication.

[PAGE 3]
Page 3 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
What’s New
This section summarizes important
tax changes that took effect in
2025. Most of these changes are
discussed in more detail
throughout this publication.
Future developments.  For the
latest information about the tax law
topics covered in this publication,
such as legislation enacted after it
was published, go to IRS.gov/
Pub17.
Who must file.  Generally, the
amount of income you can receive
before you must file a return has
been increased. For more information, see chapter 1, later.
Due date of return.  File Form
1040 or 1040-SR by April 15, 2026.
See chapter 1, later.
Trump account and new Form
4547. Recent legislation allows
parents, guardians, and other authorized individuals to elect to establish a new type of individual retirement account, called a T rump
account, for the exclusive benefit of
certain children. If the child was
born after 2024 and before 2029, is
a U.S. citizen, and meets certain
other requirements, the authorized
individual may also elect to receive
a $1,000 pilot program contribution
to the child’s T rump account. Both
elections can be made on Form
4547, which can be filed at the
same time as the authorized individual’s 2025 income tax return.
For more information on T rump accounts, and to learn how to make
these elections, see Form 4547
and its instructions.
Standard deduction amount increased. For 2025, the standard
deduction amount has been increased for all filers. The amounts
are:
• Single or Married filing separately—$15,750;
• Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving
spouse—$31,500; and
• Head of household—$23,625.
See chapter 10, later.
Higher catch -up contribution
limit for ages 60 to 63.  If, at the
end of 2025, you were at least age
60, but younger than age 64, and
you participated in a deferred compensation plan (including most
401(k), 403(b), and governmental
457 plans, and the governmental
Thrift Savings Plan), a higher
catch-up contribution limit may apply to you. For 2025, this higher
catch-up contribution limit is
$11,250. For more information,
contact your plan administrator and
see Pub. 590-A.
Main home was in the United
States. If your main home (and
spouse if filing a joint return) was in
the United States for over half of
2025, check the box on the front of
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. Providing
this information will help the IRS
determine your eligibility for certain
tax benefits, including the earned
income credit.
Changes to the Dependents
section.  The Dependents section
now has numbered rows and asks
for more information about you and
your dependents. This new information is being asked to help the
IRS determine your eligibility for
certain tax benefits, including the
child tax credit, the credit for other
dependents, and the earned income credit.
Write-in information.  Beginning
in 2025, most of the words, codes,
and/or dollar amounts that are
used to explain an item of income
or deduction, and that you previously had to enter next to specific
lines, now have a dedicated checkbox or entry space.
Death of a taxpayer.  If you need
to file a return for someone who
died before filing a 2025 return,
check the “Deceased” box at the
top of Form 1040 or 1040 -SR and
enter the date of death. For more
information, see Death of a T axpayer in the Instructions for Form
1040.
Contributions to a governmental paid family leave program.
Beginning in 2025, if you made
contributions to a governmental
paid family leave program, you will
now include the full amount of
those contributions in your income.
If you itemize your deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040), you can
include the amounts contributed as
part of the state and local taxes
that you paid.
Form 1099 -DA. If, in 2025, you
used a broker to effect the sale of a
digital asset, your broker should
send you a Form 1099 -DA that reports information regarding the
transaction. In 2025, your broker
has the option to report your basis
in the digital asset on Form
1099-DA but is not required to do
so. Even if you receive a Form
1099-DA, you must still answer the
digital assets question on page 1 of
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. For more
information, see the Instructions for
Form 1099-DA.
Electronic payments and direct
deposit. If you have access to
U.S. banking services or electronic
payment systems, you should use
direct deposit for any refunds. The
IRS recommends paying electronically whenever possible. Options
to pay electronically include using
your bank account with Direct Pay,
your debit or credit card, your digital wallet, or your online account.
Go to IRS.gov/Payments to see all
your payment options. Also, see
ModernPayments.
New deductions for itemizers
and non -itemizers. Recent legislation provided for four new deductions that take effect beginning in
2025. If you are eligible, you can
claim these deductions if you take
the standard deduction or if you
itemize on Schedule A (Form
1040). For more information on
these deductions, see the instructions for Schedule 1 -A (Form
1040). The new deductions are as
follows.
• No tax on tips. Y ou may be
eligible to take a deduction for
qualified tips paid to you in
2025. Y ou can’t deduct more
than $25,000 of those tips.
Y our deduction will be limited
if your modified adjusted
gross income is more than
$150,000 ($300,000 if married
filing jointly). T o be eligible,
you and/or your spouse who
received the tips must have a
valid social security number
(SSN). If you are married, you
must file a joint return.
• No tax on overtime. If you
earned qualified overtime, you
may be eligible to deduct up
to $12,500 ($25,000 if married
filing jointly) of your qualified
overtime compensation. Y our
deduction will be limited if
your modified adjusted gross
income is more than $150,000
($300,000 if married filing
jointly). T o be eligible, you
and/or your spouse who received the overtime must have
a valid SSN. If you are married, you must file a joint return.
• No tax on car loan interest.
If you paid or accrued qualified passenger vehicle loan interest on a vehicle you purchased in 2025 for personal
use, you may be eligible to deduct up to $10,000 of that interest. Y our deduction will be
limited if your modified adjusted gross income is more than
$100,000 ($200,000 if married
filing jointly).
• Enhanced deduction for seniors. If you were born before
January 2, 1961, you may be
eligible for an enhanced senior deduction. Y our deduction will be limited if your
modified adjusted gross income is more than $75,000
($150,000 if married filing
jointly). T o be eligible, you
and/or your spouse must have
a valid SSN. If you are married, you must file a joint return. The maximum amount of
the deduction is $6,000
($12,000 if both spouses are
eligible).
Deferral of gain invested in a
qualified opportunity fund
(QOF). T axpayers who made a
deferral election in a QOF that
meets the 7 -year holding period
threshold may be eligible for a basis adjustment. See the Instructions for Schedule D (Form 1040);
and Form 8997, Initial and Annual
Statement of Qualified Opportunity
Fund (QOF) Investments, and its
instructions for additional information regarding QOFs.
Deferred compensation contribution limit increased.  If you
participate in a 401(k) plan, 403(b)
plan, or the federal government’s
Thrift Savings Plan, the total annual amount you can contribute for
2025 is increased to:
• $23,500;
• $31,000 if age 50 or older; or
• $37,750 if age 60, 61, 62, or
63 at the end of 2025.
This also applies to most section 457 plans.
New Schedule 1 -A. A new
schedule to Form 1040, Schedule
1-A, has been created for taxpayers to claim a deduction for the recently enacted deductions for no
tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no
tax on car loan interest, and the enhanced senior deduction. For more
information, see the instructions for
Schedule 1-A in the Instructions for
Form 1040.
State and local tax deduction
limit increased.  The overall limit
on the deduction for state and local
income, sales, and property taxes
has increased to $40,000 ($20,000
if married filing separately). The
overall limit is reduced if your modified adjusted gross income is more
than $500,000 ($250,000 if married
filing separately) but will not be reduced below $10,000 ($5,000 if
married filing separately). For more
information, see the Instructions for
Schedule A (Form 1040).
SSN or individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) needed
Publication 17 (2025) 1

[PAGE 4]
Page 4 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
to claim the credit for other dependents. Beginning in 2025, to
be eligible to claim the credit for
other dependents, you, or your
spouse if filing jointly, must have a
valid SSN or ITIN issued on or before the due date of your return (including extensions).
Changes to the adoption credit.
Recent legislation made changes
to the adoption credit. Beginning in
2025, the following changes apply.
• Up to $5,000 of adoption
credit is refundable. Up to
$5,000 of your adoption credit
may be refundable. The
amount of the refundable portion is determined separately
for each eligible child.
• Parity for Indian Tribal governments. T ribal governments now have parity for
special needs adoption determinations. This means that
state government and Indian
T ribal government determinations of special needs are
both recognized for purposes
of the adoption credit. For
more information, see Form
8839, Qualified Adoption Expenses, and its instructions.
The adoption credit and the exclusion for employer -provided
adoption benefits are both $17,280
per eligible child in 2025. The
amount begins to phase out if you
have modified AGI in excess of
$259,190 and is completely
phased out if your modified AGI is
$299,190 or more.
Election to pay tax on farmland
sale or exchange in installments. If your tax year began after
July 4, 2025, and you sold or exchanged qualified farmland to a
qualified farmer after that date, you
can elect to pay the net income tax
liability on the sale or exchange in
four equal installments. For more
information, see the instructions for
Schedule 2 (Form 1040) and
Schedule 3 (Form 1040). Also, see
Form 1062, Deferral of T ax on Gain
From the Sale or Exchange of
Qualified Farmland Property to
Qualified Farmers, and its instructions.
Domestic research and experimental expenditures.  Beginning
in 2025, taxpayers are allowed to
deduct domestic research and experimental expenditures. Alternatively, taxpayers may elect to
charge their domestic research
and experimental expenditures to a
capital account and deduct them
ratably over a period of not less
than 60 months (beginning with the
month in which the taxpayers first
realize the benefits from such
expenditures).
Health flexible spending arrangements (health FSAs) under cafeteria plans. For tax years
beginning in 2025, the dollar limitation under section 1251(i) on voluntary employee salary reductions for
contributions to health FSAs is
$3,300.
Delayed refund for returns
claiming the ACTC. The IRS cannot issue refunds before mid -February 2026 for returns that properly
claim the ACTC. This time frame
applies to the entire refund, not just
the portion associated with the
ACTC.
Standard mileage rate.  The
2025 rate for business use of a vehicle is 70 cents a mile. The 2025
rate for use of your vehicle to do
volunteer work for certain charitable organizations is 14 cents a
mile. The 2025 rate for operating
expenses for a car when you use it
for medical reasons is 21 cents a
mile.
Modified adjusted gross income
(AGI) limit for traditional IRA
contributions. For 2025, if you
are covered by a retirement plan at
work, your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is reduced
(phased out) if your modified AGI
is:
• More than $126,000 but less
than $146,000 for a married
couple filing a joint return or a
qualifying surviving spouse,
• More than $79,000 but less
than $89,000 for a single individual or head of household,
or
• Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate
return.
If you either live with your spouse
or file a joint return, and your
spouse is covered by a retirement
plan at work but you aren’t, your
deduction is phased out if your
modified AGI is more than
$236,000 but less than $246,000. If
your modified AGI is $246,000 or
more, you can’t take a deduction
for contributions to a traditional
IRA. See How Much Can Y ou Deduct in chapter 9, later.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA
contributions.  For 2025, your
Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased out) in the following
situations.
• Y our filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and your modified
AGI is at least $236,000. Y ou
can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is
$246,000 or more.
• Y our filing status is single,
head of household, or married
filing separately and you didn’t
live with your spouse at any
time in 2025 and your modified AGI is at least $150,000.
Y ou can’t make a Roth IRA
contribution if your modified
AGI is $165,000 or more.
• Y our filing status is married filing separately, you lived with
your spouse at any time during the year, and your modified AGI is more than zero.
Y ou can’t make a Roth IRA
contribution if your modified
AGI is $10,000 or more. See
Can Y ou Contribute to a Roth
IRA in chapter 9, later.
2026 modified AGI limits.  Y ou
can find information about the 2026
contribution and modified AGI limits in Pub. 590-A.
Tax law changes for 2026. When
you figure how much income tax
you want withheld from your pay
and when you figure your estimated tax, consider tax law changes
effective in 2026. For more information, see Pub. 505.
Alternative minimum tax (AMT)
exemption amount increased.
The AMT exemption amount is increased to $88,100 ($137,000 if
married filing jointly or qualifying
surviving spouse; $68,500 if married filing separately). The income
levels at which the AMT exemption
begins to phase out have increased to $626,350 ($1,252,700 if
married filing jointly or qualifying
surviving spouse).
Updated reporting requirements
for Form 1099 -K. Payment card
companies, payment apps, and online marketplaces will be required
to send you a Form 1099 -K only if
the amount of your business transactions during the year is more
than $20,000 and the total number
of your transactions is more than
200.
New option for scheduled appointments at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs). Beginning
in 2025, taxpayers with scheduled
appointments at TACs may choose
to receive appointment confirmations, reminders, and cancellation
notices directly via text message
on their mobile devices.
Reminders
Listed below are important
reminders and other items that may
help you file your 2025 tax return.
Many of these items are explained
in more detail later in this
publication.
Secure your tax records from
identity theft. Identity theft occurs
when someone uses your personal
information, such as your name,
SSN, or other identifying information, without your permission, to
commit fraud or other crimes. An
identity thief may use your SSN to
get a job or may file a tax return using your SSN to receive a refund.
For more information about identity
theft and how to reduce your risk
from it, see chapter 1, later.
Taxpayer identification numbers
(TINs). Y ou must provide the TIN
for each person for whom you
claim certain tax benefits. This applies even if the person was born in
2025. Generally, this number is the
person’s SSN. See chapter 1, later.
Additional child tax credit
(ACTC) amount.  The maximum
ACTC amount is $1,700 for each
qualifying child.
Premium tax credit (PTC).  The
ARP expanded the PTC by
eliminating the limitation that a taxpayer’s household income may not
exceed 400% of the federal poverty
line and generally increases the
credit amounts. For more information, see Pub. 974 and Form 8962
and its instructions.
Identity verification.  The IRS
launched an improved identity verification and sign -in process that
enables more people to securely
access and use IRS online tools
and applications. T o provide verification services, the IRS is using
ID.me, a trusted technology provider. The new process is one
more step the IRS is taking to ensure that taxpayer information is
provided only to the person who legally has a right to the data. T axpayers using the new mobile-friendly verification procedure
can gain entry to existing IRS online services such as the Child T ax
Credit Update Portal , Online Account, Get T ranscript Online , Get
an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN) ,
and Online Payment Agreement .
Additional IRS applications will
transition to the new method over
the next year. Each online service
will also provide information that
will instruct taxpayers on the steps
they need to follow for access to
2 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 5]
Page 5 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
the service. Y ou can also see
IR-2021-228 for more information.
ACTC and bona fide residents
of Puerto Rico.  Bona fide residents of Puerto Rico are no longer
required to have three or more
qualifying children to be eligible to
claim the ACTC. Bona fide residents of Puerto Rico may be eligible to claim the ACTC if they have
one or more qualifying children.
Foreign-source income.  If you
are a U.S. citizen with income from
sources outside the United States
(foreign income), you must report
all such income on your tax return
unless it is exempt by law or a tax
treaty. This is true whether you live
inside or outside the United States
and whether or not you receive a
Form W -2 or Form 1099 from the
foreign payer. This applies to
earned income (such as wages
and tips) as well as unearned income (such as interest, dividends,
capital gains, pensions, rents, and
royalties).
If you live outside the United
States, you may be able to exclude
part or all of your foreign earned income. For details, see Pub. 54.
Foreign financial assets.  If you
had foreign financial assets in
2025, you may have to file Form
8938 with your return. See Form
8938 and its instructions or go to
IRS.gov/Form8938 for details.
Automatic 6-month extension to
file tax return. Y ou can get an automatic 6 -month extension of time
to file your tax return. See chapter 1, later.
Payment of taxes.  Y ou can pay
your taxes by making electronic
payments online; from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app; or in
cash, or by check or money order.
Paying electronically is quick, easy,
and faster than mailing in a check
or money order. See chapter 1 ,
later.
Faster ways to file your return.
The IRS offers fast, accurate ways
to file your tax return information
without filing a paper tax return.
Y ou can use IRS e-file (electronic
filing). See chapter 1, later.
Free electronic filing.  Y ou may
be able to file your 2025 taxes online for free. See chapter 1, later.
Change of address.  If you
change your address, notify the
IRS. See chapter 1, later.
Refund on a late -filed return.  If
you were due a refund but you did
not file a return, you must generally
file your return within 3 years from
the date the return was due (including extensions) to get that refund.
See chapter 1, later.
Frivolous tax returns.  The IRS
has published a list of positions
that are identified as frivolous. The
penalty for filing a frivolous tax return is $5,000. See chapter 1, later.
Filing erroneous claim for refund or credit.  Y ou may have to
pay a penalty if you file an erroneous claim for refund or credit. See
chapter 1, later.
Access your online account.
Y ou must authenticate your identity.
T o securely log into your federal tax
account, go to IRS.gov/Account.
View the amount you owe, review
your last 5 years of payment history, access online payment options, and create or modify an online payment agreement. Y ou can
also access your tax records online.
Health care coverage.  If you
need health care coverage, go to
HealthCare.gov to learn about
health insurance options for you
and your family, how to buy health
insurance, and how you might
qualify to get financial assistance
to buy health insurance.
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act information. The IRS Restructuring and
Reform Act of 1998, the Privacy
Act of 1974, and the Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1980 require that
when we ask you for information,
we must first tell you what our legal
right is to ask for the information;
why we are asking for it; how it will
be used; what could happen if we
do not receive it; and whether your
response is voluntary, required to
obtain a benefit, or mandatory under the law. A complete statement
on this subject can be found in your
tax form instructions.
Preparer e-file mandate. Most
paid preparers must e-file returns
they prepare and file. Y our preparer
may make you aware of this requirement and the options available to you.
Treasury Inspector General for
Tax Administration.  If you want
to confidentially report misconduct,
waste, fraud, or abuse by an IRS
employee, you can call
800-366-4484 (call 800 -877-8339
if you are deaf, hard of hearing, or
have a speech disability, and are
using TTY/TDD equipment). Y ou
can remain anonymous.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud partner
with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children®
(NCMEC). Photographs of missing
children selected by the Center
may appear in this publication on
pages that would otherwise be
blank. Y ou can help bring these
children home by looking at the
photographs and calling
1-800-THE-LOST
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize
a child.
Introduction
This publication covers the general
rules for filing a federal income tax
return. It supplements the information contained in your tax form instructions. It explains the tax law to
make sure you pay only the tax you
owe and no more.
How this publication is arranged. Pub. 17 closely follows
Form 1040, U.S. Individual Income
T ax Return, and Form 1040 -SR,
U.S. T ax Return for Seniors, and
their three Schedules 1 through 3.
Pub. 17 is divided into four parts.
Each part is further divided into
chapters, most of which generally
discuss one line of the form or one
line of one of the three schedules.
The introduction at the beginning
of each part lists the schedule(s)
discussed in that part.
The table of contents inside the
front cover, the introduction to each
part, and the index in the back of
the publication are useful tools to
help you find the information you
need.
What is in this publication.  This
publication begins with the rules for
filing a tax return. It explains:
1. Who must file a return,
2. When the return is due,
3. How to e-file your return, and
4. Other general information.
It will help you identify which filing
status you qualify for, whether you
can claim any dependents, and
whether the income you receive is
taxable. The publication goes on to
explain the standard deduction, the
kinds of expenses you may be able
to deduct, and the various kinds of
credits you may be able to take to
reduce your tax.
Throughout this publication are
examples showing how the tax law
applies in typical situations. Also
throughout this publication are
flowcharts and tables that present
tax information in an easy -to-understand manner.
Many of the subjects discussed
in this publication are discussed in
greater detail in other IRS publications. References to those other
publications are provided for your
information.
Icons. Small graphic symbols,
or icons, are used to draw your attention to special information. See
T able 1 for an explanation of each
icon used in this publication.
What is not covered in this publication. Some material that you
may find helpful is not included in
this publication but can be found in
your tax form instructions booklet.
This includes lists of:
• Where to report certain items
shown on information documents, and
• T ax T opics you can read at
IRS.gov/T axT opics.
If you operate your own business or have other self -employment income, such as from babysitting or selling crafts, see the
following publications for more information.
• Pub. 334, T ax Guide for Small
Business.
• Pub. 225, Farmer’s T ax Guide.
• Pub. 587, Business Use of
Y our Home.
Help from the IRS.  There are
many ways you can get help from
the IRS. These are explained under How T o Get T ax Help  at the
end of this publication.
Comments and suggestions.
We welcome your comments about
this publication and suggestions for
future editions.
Y ou can send us comments
through IRS.gov/FormComments.
Or you can write to the Internal
Revenue Service, T ax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR -6526, Washington,
DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received,
we do appreciate your feedback
and will consider your comments
and suggestions as we revise our
tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions,
tax returns, or payments to the
above address.
Getting answers to your tax
questions. If you have a tax question not answered by this publication or the How T o Get T ax Help
section at the end of this
Publication 17 (2025) 3

[PAGE 6]
Page 6 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
publication, go to the IRS Interactive T ax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics
by using the search feature or
viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.  Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior -year forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.  Go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions.
The IRS will process your order for
forms and publications as soon as
possible. Don’t resubmit requests
you’ve already sent us. Y ou can get
forms and publications faster online.
IRS mission.  Provide America’s
taxpayers top -quality service by
helping them understand and meet
their tax responsibilities and enforce the law with integrity and fairness to all.
Publication 17 Changes
Note: This publication does not cover the topics listed in the following table. Please see the primary publication.
Chapter removed Title of chapter Primary source
6 Tip Income Pub. 531, Reporting Tip Income
8 Dividends and Other Distributions Pub. 550, Investment Income and
Expenses
9 Rental Income and Expenses Pub. 527, Residential Rental Property
(Including Rental of Vacation Homes)
10 Retirement Plans, Pensions, and Annuities Pub. 575, Pension and Annuity Income
13 Basis of Property Pub. 551, Basis of Assets
14 Sale of Property Pub. 550
15 Selling Y our Home Pub. 523, Selling Y our Home
16 Reporting Gains and Losses Pub. 550
18 Alimony Pub. 504, Divorced or Separated
Individuals
19 Education-Related Adjustments Pub. 970, T ax Benefits for Education
20 Other Adjustments to Income Pub. 463, T ravel, Gift, and Car Expenses
22 Medical and Dental Expenses Pub. 502, Medical and Dental Expenses
24 Interest Expense Pub. 550
Pub. 936, Home Mortgage Interest
Deduction
25 Charitable Contributions Pub. 561, Determining the Value of
Donated Property
Pub. 526, Charitable Contributions
26 Nonbusiness Casualty and Theft Losses Pub. 547, Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts
29 T ax on Unearned Income of Certain Minor
Children
Form 8615, T ax for Certain Children Who
Have Unearned Income
30 Child and Dependent Care Credit Pub. 503, Child and Dependent Care
Expenses
31 Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled Schedule R (Form 1040), Credit for the
Elderly or the Disabled
33 Education Credits Pub. 970
34 Earned Income Credit (EIC) Pub. 596, Earned Income Credit (EIC)
35 Premium T ax Credit Pub. 974, Premium T ax Credit (PTC)
36 Other Credits
4 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 7]
Page 7 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
T able 1. Legend of Icons
Icon Explanation
CAUTION
!
Items that may cause you particular problems, or an alert about pending legislation that may be enacted after
this publication goes to print.
An Internet site or an email address.
An address you may need.
RECORDS
Items you should keep in your personal records.
Items you may need to figure or a worksheet you may need to complete and keep for your records.
An important phone number.
TIP
Helpful information you may need.
Publication 17 (2025) 5

[PAGE 8]
Part One.
The Income Tax
Return
The four chapters in this part provide basic information on the tax system.
They take you through the first steps of filling out a tax return. They also
provide information about dependents, and discuss recordkeeping
requirements, IRS e-file (electronic filing), certain penalties, and the two
methods used to pay tax during the year: withholding and estimated tax.
The Form 1040 and 1040-SR schedules that are discussed in these
chapters are:
• Schedule 1, Additional Income and Adjustments to Income; and
• Schedule 3, Part II, Other Payments and Refundable Credits.
1.
Filing
Information
What’s New
Due date of return.  File Form 1040 or
1040-SR by April 15, 2026.
Who must file.  Generally, the amount of income you can receive before you must file a return has been increased. See T able 1-1, T able 1-2, and T able 1-3 for the specific amounts.
Trump accounts and new Form 4547.  Recent legislation allows parents, guardians, and
other authorized individuals to elect to establish
a new type of individual retirement account,
called a T rump account, for the exclusive benefit
of certain children. If the child was born after
2024 and before 2029, is a U.S. citizen, and
meets certain other requirements, the authorized individual may also elect to receive a
$1,000 pilot program contribution to the child’s
T rump account. Both elections can be made on
Form 4547, which can be filed at the same time
as the authorized individual’s 2025 income tax
return. For more information on T rump accounts, and to learn how to make these elections, see Form 4547 and its instructions.
Reminders
File online. E-filing is safe and secure and you
may be able to e-file for free. For more information, see File Electronically, later.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only).  Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment, view 5 years of payment
history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return, your
economic impact payment amounts, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
• View your address on file or manage your
communication preferences.
• Go to IRS.gov/SecureAccess to view the
required identity authentication process.
Change of address.  If you change your address, you should notify the IRS. Y ou can use
Form 8822 to notify the IRS of the change. See
Change of Address, later, under What Happens
After I File.
Enter your social security number. Y ou must
enter your social security number (SSN) in the
spaces provided on your tax return. If you file a
joint return, enter the SSNs in the same order
as the names.
Direct deposit of refund.  Have your refund
deposited directly into your account at a bank or
other financial institution. See Direct Deposit
under Refunds, later. If you choose direct deposit of your refund, you may be able to split the
refund among two or three accounts.
Pay online or by phone. If you owe additional
tax, you may be able to pay online or by phone.
See How T o Pay, later.
Installment agreement.  If you can’t pay the
full amount due with your return, you may ask to
make monthly installment payments. See Installment Agreement , later, under Amount Y ou
Owe. Y ou may be able to apply online for a payment agreement if you owe federal tax, interest,
and penalties.
Automatic 6 -month extension.  Y ou can get
an automatic 6 -month extension to file your tax
return if, no later than the date your return is
due, you request an extension. See Automatic
Extension, later.
Service in combat zone.  Y ou are allowed extra time to take care of your tax matters if you
are a member of the Armed Forces who served
in a combat zone, or if you served in a combat
zone in support of the Armed Forces. See Individuals Serving in Combat Zone , later, under
When Do I Have T o File.
Adoption taxpayer identification number.  If
a child has been placed in your home for purposes of legal adoption and you won’t be able to
get a social security number for the child in time
to file your return, you may be able to get an
adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN).
For more information, see Social Security Number (SSN), later.
Taxpayer identification number for aliens. If
you or your dependent is a nonresident or resident alien who doesn’t have and isn’t eligible to
get a social security number, file Form W -7, Application for IRS Individual T axpayer Identification Number, with the IRS. For more information, see Social Security Number (SSN), later.
Individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN) renewal. Some ITINs must be renewed.
If you haven’t used your ITIN on a U.S. tax return at least once for tax years 2022, 2023, or
2024, it has expired and must be renewed if you
need to file a U.S. federal tax return. Y ou don’t
need to renew your ITIN if you don’t need to file
a federal tax return. Y ou can find more information at IRS.gov/ITIN.
Frivolous tax submissions.  The IRS has
published a list of positions that are identified as
frivolous. The penalty for filing a frivolous tax return is $5,000. Also, the $5,000 penalty will apply to other specified frivolous submissions. For
more information, see Civil Penalties, later.
Introduction
This chapter discusses the following topics.
• Whether you have to file a return.
• How to file electronically.
• How to file for free.
• When, how, and where to file your return.
• What happens if you pay too little or too
much tax.
• What records you should keep and how
long you should keep them.
• How you can change a return you have already filed.
Page 8 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
6 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 9]
Do I Have To
File a Return?
Y ou must file a federal income tax return if you
are a citizen or resident of the United States or
a resident of Puerto Rico and you meet the filing
requirements for any of the following categories
that apply to you.
1. Individuals in general. (There are special
rules for individuals whose spouse has
died, executors, administrators, legal representatives, U.S. citizens and residents
living outside the United States, residents
of Puerto Rico, and individuals with income from U.S. territories.)
2. Dependents.
3. Certain children under age 19 or full-time
students.
4. Self-employed persons.
5. Aliens.
The filing requirements for each category are
explained in this chapter.
The filing requirements apply even if you
don’t owe tax.
Even if you don’t have to file a return, it
may be to your advantage to do so.
See Who Should File, later.
File only one federal income tax return
for the year regardless of how many
jobs you had, how many Forms W -2
you received, or how many states you lived in
during the year. Don’t file more than one original
return for the same year, even if you haven’t received your refund or haven’t heard from the
IRS since you filed.
Individuals—In General
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident, whether you
must file a return depends on three factors.
1. Y our gross income.
2. Y our filing status.
3. Y our age.
T o find out whether you must file, see T able 1-1, T able 1-2, and T able 1-3. Even if no table shows that you must file, you may need to
file to get money back. See Who Should File ,
later.
Gross income.  This includes all income you
receive in the form of money, goods, property,
and services that isn’t exempt from tax. It also
includes income from sources outside the United States or from the sale of your main home
(even if you can exclude all or part of it). Include
part of your social security benefits if:
1. Y ou were married, filing a separate return,
and you lived with your spouse at any time
during 2025; or
2. Half of your social security benefits plus
your other gross income and any tax-exempt interest is more than $25,000
($32,000 if married filing jointly).
TIP
CAUTION
!
If either (1) or (2) applies, see the Instructions
for Form 1040 or Pub. 915 to figure the social
security benefits you must include in gross income.
Common types of income are discussed in
Part T wo of this publication.
Community property states.  Community
property states include Arizona, California,
Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, T exas,
Washington, and Wisconsin. If you and your
spouse lived in a community property state, you
must usually follow state law to determine what
is community property and what is separate income. For details, see Form 8958 and Pub.
555.
Nevada, Washington, and California domestic partners.  A registered domestic partner in Nevada, Washington, or California must
generally report half the combined community
income of the individual and their domestic
partner. See Pub. 555.
Self-employed individuals.  If you are
self-employed, your gross income includes the
amount on line 7 of Schedule C (Form 1040),
Profit or Loss From Business; and line 9 of
Schedule F (Form 1040), Profit or Loss From
Farming. See Self-Employed Persons, later, for
more information about your filing requirements.
If you don’t report all of your self -employment income, your social security
benefits may be lower when you retire.
Filing status.  Y our filing status depends on
whether you are single or married and on your
CAUTION
!
family situation. Y our filing status is determined
on the last day of your tax year, which is December 31 for most taxpayers. See chapter 2
for an explanation of each filing status.
Age. If you are 65 or older at the end of the
year, you can generally have a higher amount of
gross income than other taxpayers before you
must file. See T able 1-1. Y ou are considered 65
on the day before your 65th birthday. For example, if your 65th birthday is on January 1, 2026,
you are considered 65 for 2025.
Surviving Spouses,
Executors, Administrators,
and Legal Representatives
Y ou must file a final return for a decedent (a person who died) if both of the following are true.
• Y our spouse died in 2025 or you are the
executor, administrator, or legal representative.
• The decedent met the filing requirements
at the date of death.
For more information on rules for filing a decedent’s final return, see Pub. 559.
U.S. Citizens and Resident Aliens
Living Abroad
T o determine whether you must file a return, include in your gross income any income you received abroad, including any income you can
exclude under the foreign earned income exclusion. For information on special tax rules that
T able 1-1. 2025 Filing Requirements for Most Taxpayers
IF your filing status is...
AND at the end of 2025 you
were...*
THEN file a return if
your gross income
was at least...**
Single under 65 $15,750
65 or older $17,750
Married filing jointly*** under 65 (both spouses) $31,500
65 or older (one spouse) $33,100
65 or older (both spouses) $34,700
Married filing separately any age $5
Head of household under 65 $23,625
65 or older $25,625
Qualifying surviving spouse under 65 $31,500
65 or older $33,100
* If you were born on January 1, 1961, you are considered to be age 65 at the end of 2025. (If your spouse
died in 2025 or if you are preparing a return for someone who died in 2025, see Pub. 501.)
** Gross income means all income you received in the form of money, goods, property, and services that
isn’t exempt from tax, including any income from sources outside the United States or from the sale of
your main home (even if you can exclude part or all of it). Don’t include any social security benefits unless
(a) you are married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time during 2025, or (b)
one-half of your social security benefits plus your other gross income and any tax-exempt interest is more
than $25,000 ($32,000 if married filing jointly). If (a) or (b) applies, see the Instructions for Form 1040 or
Pub. 915 to figure the taxable part of social security benefits you must include in gross income. Gross
income includes gains, but not losses, reported on Form 8949 or Schedule D. Gross income from a
business means, for example, the amount on Schedule C, line 7, or Schedule F , line 9. But, in figuring
gross income, don’t reduce your income by any losses, including any loss on Schedule C, line 7, or
Schedule F , line 9.
*** If you didn’t live with your spouse at the end of 2025 (or on the date your spouse died) and your gross
income was at least $5, you must file a return regardless of your age.
Page 9 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 1 Filing Information 7

[PAGE 10]
may apply to you, see Pub. 54. It is available online and at most U.S. embassies and consulates. See How T o Get T ax Help in the back of
this publication.
Residents of Puerto Rico
If you are a U.S. citizen and also a bona fide
resident of Puerto Rico, you must generally file
a U.S. income tax return for any year in which
you meet the income requirements. This is in
addition to any legal requirement you may have
to file an income tax return with Puerto Rico.
If you are a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico
for the entire year, your U.S. gross income
doesn’t include income from sources within
Puerto Rico. It does, however, include any income you received for your services as an employee of the United States or a U.S. agency. If
you receive income from Puerto Rican sources
that isn’t subject to U.S. tax, you must reduce
your standard deduction. As a result, the
amount of income you must have before you are
required to file a U.S. income tax return is lower
than the applicable amount in T able 1-1 or T able 1-2. For more information, see Pub. 570.
Individuals With Income From
U.S. Territories
If you had income from Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands, special
rules may apply when determining whether you
must file a U.S. federal income tax return. In addition, you may have to file a return with the individual island government. See Pub. 570 for
more information.
Dependents
If you are a dependent (one who meets the dependency tests in chapter 3 ), see T able 1-2 to
find out whether you must file a return. Y ou must
also file if your situation is described in T able 1-3.
Responsibility of parent. Generally, a child is
responsible for filing their own tax return and for
paying any tax on the return. If a dependent
child must file an income tax return but can’t file
due to age or any other reason, then a parent,
guardian, or other legally responsible person
must file it for the child. If the child can’t sign the
return, the parent or guardian must sign the
child’s name followed by the words “By (your
signature), parent for minor child.”
Child’s earnings. Amounts a child earns by
performing services are included in the child’s
gross income and not the gross income of the
parent. This is true even if under local law the
child’s parent has the right to the earnings and
may actually have received them. But if the child
doesn’t pay the tax due on this income, the parent is liable for the tax.
Certain Children Under
Age 19 or Full-Time
Students
If a child’s only income is interest and dividends
(including capital gain distributions and Alaska
Permanent Fund dividends), the child was
under age 19 at the end of 2025 or was a
full-time student under age 24 at the end of
2025, and certain other conditions are met, a
parent can elect to include the child’s income on
the parent’s return. If this election is made, the
child doesn’t have to file a return. See Instructions for Form 8814, Parents’ Election T o Report
Child’s Interest and Dividends.
Self-Employed Persons
Y ou are self-employed if you:
• Carry on a trade or business as a sole proprietor,
• Are an independent contractor,
• Are a member of a partnership, or
• Are in business for yourself in any other
way.
Self-employment can include work in addition to your regular full -time business activities,
such as certain part -time work you do at home
or in addition to your regular job.
Y ou must file a return if your gross income is
at least as much as the filing requirement
amount for your filing status and age (shown in
T able 1-1). Also, you must file Form 1040 or
1040-SR and Schedule SE (Form 1040),
Self-Employment T ax, if:
1. Y our net earnings from self-employment
(excluding church employee income) were
$400 or more, or
2. Y ou had church employee income of
$108.28 or more. (See T able 1-3.)
Use Schedule SE (Form 1040) to figure your
self-employment tax. Self -employment tax is
comparable to the social security and Medicare
tax withheld from an employee’s wages. For
more information about this tax, see Pub. 334.
Employees of foreign governments or international organizations.  If you are a U.S.
citizen who works in the United States for an international organization, a foreign government,
or a wholly owned instrumentality of a foreign
government, and your employer isn’t required to
withhold social security and Medicare taxes
from your wages, you must include your earnings from services performed in the United
States when figuring your net earnings from
self-employment.
Ministers. Y ou must include income from
services you performed as a minister when figuring your net earnings from self -employment,
unless you have an exemption from self -employment tax. This also applies to Christian Science practitioners and members of a religious
order who have not taken a vow of poverty. For
more information, see Pub. 517.
Aliens
Y our status as an alien (resident, nonresident,
or dual -status) determines whether and how
you must file an income tax return.
The rules used to determine your alien status are discussed in Pub. 519.
Resident alien.  If you are a resident alien for
the entire year, you must file a tax return following the same rules that apply to U.S. citizens.
Use the forms discussed in this publication.
Nonresident alien.  If you are a nonresident
alien, the rules and tax forms that apply to you
are different from those that apply to U.S. citizens and resident aliens. See Pub. 519 to find
out if U.S. income tax laws apply to you and
which forms you should file.
Dual-status taxpayer.  If you are a resident
alien for part of the tax year and a nonresident
alien for the rest of the year, you are a dual -status taxpayer. Different rules apply for each part
of the year. For information on dual -status taxpayers, see Pub. 519.
Who Should File
Even if you don’t have to file, you should file a
federal income tax return to get money back if
any of the following conditions apply.
1. Y ou had federal income tax withheld or
made estimated tax payments.
2. Y ou qualify for the earned income credit.
See Pub. 596 for more information.
3. Y ou qualify for the additional child tax
credit. See chapter 14 for more information.
4. Y ou qualify for the premium tax credit. See
Pub. 974 for more information.
5. Y ou qualify for the American opportunity
credit. See Pub. 970 for more information.
6. Y ou qualify for the refundable adoption
credit. See Form 8839 and its instructions
for more information.
See chapter 13 for more information.
Form 1040 or 1040-SR
Use Form 1040 or 1040 -SR to file your return.
(But also see File Electronically, later.)
Y ou can use Form 1040 or 1040 -SR to report all types of income, deductions, and credits.
File Electronically
Electronic Filing
If your adjusted gross income (AGI) is less than
a certain amount, you are eligible for Free File,
a free tax software service offered by IRS partners, to prepare and e-file your return for free. If
your income is over the amount, you are still eligible for Free File Fillable Forms, an electronic
version of IRS paper forms. T able 1-4 lists the
free ways to electronically file your return.
Free File and Free Fillable Forms provide eligible taxpayers the ability to e -file their taxes for
free. See IRS.gov/FreeFile for details and to see
if you are eligible.
E-file. IRS e-file uses automation to replace
most of the manual steps needed to process
paper returns. As a result, the processing of
e-file returns is faster and more accurate than
the processing of paper returns. However, as
with a paper return, you are responsible for
Page 10 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
8 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 11]
making sure your return contains accurate information and is filed on time. If your return is filed
with IRS e-file, you will receive an acknowledgment that your return was received and accepted. If you owe tax, you can e-file and pay electronically. The IRS has processed more than
one billion e-filed returns safely and securely.
Using e-file doesn’t affect your chances of an
IRS examination of your return.
Requirements for an electronic return.  The
requirements for signing an electronic return will
be different depending on whether you use tax
software or a tax practitioner. T o file your return
electronically, you must sign the return electronically using a personal identification number
(PIN) and provide the information described below. If you are filing online using software, you
must use a Self -Select PIN. If you are filing
electronically using a tax practitioner, you can
use a Self-Select PIN or a Practitioner PIN.
If we issued you an identity protection personal identification number (IP PIN) (as described in more detail next), all six digits of your IP
PIN must appear in the IP PIN spaces provided
next to the space for your occupation for your
electronic signature to be complete. Failure to
include an issued IP PIN on the electronic return will result in an invalid signature and a rejected return. If you are filing a joint return and
both taxpayers were issued IP PINs, enter both
IP PINs in the spaces provided.
Self-Select PIN.  The Self -Select PIN method
allows you to create your own PIN. If you are
married filing jointly, you and your spouse will
each need to create a PIN and enter these PINs
as your electronic signatures.
A PIN is any combination of five digits you
choose except five zeros. If you use a PIN, there
is nothing to sign and nothing to mail —not even
your Forms W-2.
Y our electronic return signed with a Self-Select PIN is considered a validly signed return
only when it includes your PIN; last name; date
of birth; IP PIN, if applicable; and your adjusted
gross income (AGI) from your originally filed
2024 federal income tax return, if applicable. If
you’re filing jointly, your electronic return must
also include your spouse’s PIN; last name; date
of birth; IP PIN, if applicable; and AGI, if applicable, in order to be considered validly signed.
(Y ou, and your spouse if filing jointly, may each
use your own prior -year pin to verify your identity if you filed electronically last year. If you use
your prior-year PIN or enter your IP PIN, you are
not required to enter your prior -year AGI. The
prior-year PIN is the five -digit PIN you used to
electronically sign your 2024 return.)
If you need your AGI from your originally
filed 2024 federal income tax return, and you
don’t have your 2024 income tax return, you can
access your transcript through your online account at IRS.gov/Account. Y ou can also go to
IRS.gov/T ranscript or call the IRS at
800-908-9946 to get a free transcript of your return. Don’t use your AGI from an amended return (Form 1040 -X) or a math error correction
made by the IRS. AGI is the amount shown on
your 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.
For more information, go to IRS.gov/Efile.
Y ou can’t use the Self -Select PIN
method if you are a first-time filer under
age 16 at the end of 2025.
Practitioner PIN. The Practitioner PIN method
allows you to authorize your tax practitioner to
enter or generate your PIN. Y our electronic return is considered a validly signed return only
when it includes your PIN; last name; date of
birth; and IP PIN, if applicable. If you’re filing
jointly, your electronic return must also include
your spouse’s PIN; last name; date of birth; and
IP PIN, if applicable, in order to be considered a
validly signed return. The practitioner can provide you with details.
Form 8453.  Y ou must send in a paper Form
8453 if you have to attach certain forms or other
documents that can’t be electronically filed. See
Form 8453.
Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN).  If the IRS
gave you an IP PIN, enter it in the spaces provided on your tax form. If the IRS hasn’t given you
this type of number, leave these spaces blank.
For more information, see the Instructions for
Form 1040.
All taxpayers are now eligible for an IP
PIN. For more information, see Pub.
5477. T o apply for an IP PIN, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN and use the Get an IP PIN tool.
Power of attorney. If an agent is signing your
return for you, a power of attorney (POA) must
be filed. Attach the POA to Form 8453 and file it
using that form’s instructions. See Signatures,
later, for more information on POAs.
Refunds. Starting in October 2025, the IRS will
generally stop issuing paper checks for federal
disbursements, including tax refunds, unless an
exception applies. For more information, go
IRS.gov/ModernPayments.
Y ou may not get all of your refund if you owe
certain past -due amounts, such as federal tax,
CAUTION
!
TIP
2025 Filing Requirements for Dependents
See chapter 3 to find out if someone can claim you as a dependent.
If your parents (or someone else) can claim you as a dependent, use this table to see if you
must file a return. (See T able 1-3 for other situations when you must file.)
In this table, unearned income includes taxable interest, ordinary dividends, and capital gain
distributions. It also includes unemployment compensation, taxable social security benefits,
pensions, annuities, and distributions of unearned income from a trust. Earned income includes
salaries, wages, tips, professional fees, and taxable scholarship and fellowship grants. (See
Scholarships and fellowships in chapter 8.) Gross income is the total of your earned and
unearned income.
Single dependents—Were you either age 65 or older or blind?
No. Y ou must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Y our unearned income was more than $1,350.
• Y our earned income was more than $15,750.
• Y our gross income was more than the larger of:
• $1,350, or
• Y our earned income (up to $15,300) plus $450.
Yes. Y ou must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Y our unearned income was more than $3,350 ($5,350 if 65 or older and blind).
• Y our earned income was more than $17,750 ($19,750 if 65 or older and blind).
• Y our gross income was more than the larger of:
• $3,350 ($5,350 if 65 or older and blind), or
• Y our earned income (up to $15,300) plus $2,450 ($4,450 if 65 or older and
blind).
Married dependents—Were you either age 65 or older or blind?
No. Y ou must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Y our unearned income was more than $1,350.
• Y our earned income was more than $15,750.
• Y our gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and
itemizes deductions.
• Y our gross income was more than the larger of:
• $1,350, or
• Y our earned income (up to $15,300) plus $450.
Yes. Y ou must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Y our unearned income was more than $2,950 ($4,550 if 65 or older and blind).
• Y our earned income was more than $17,350 ($18,950 if 65 or older and blind).
• Y our gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and
itemizes deductions.
• Y our gross income was more than the larger of:
• $2,950 ($4,550 if 65 or older and blind), or
• Y our earned income (up to $15,300) plus $2,050 ($3,650 if 65 or older and
blind).
T able 1-2.
Page 11 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 1 Filing Information 9

[PAGE 12]
state income tax, state unemployment compensation debts, child support, spousal support, or
certain other federal nontax debts, such as student loans. See Offset against debts  under Refunds, later.
Refund inquiries.  Information about your return will generally be available within 24 hours
after the IRS receives your e -filed return. See
Refund Information, later.
Amount you owe. T o avoid late-payment penalties and interest, pay your taxes in full by April
15, 2026 (for most people). See How T o Pay,
later, for information on how to pay the amount
you owe.
Using Your Personal Computer
Y ou can file your tax return in a fast, easy, and
convenient way using your personal computer.
A computer with Internet access and tax preparation software are all you need. Best of all, you
can e-file from the comfort of your home 24
hours a day, 7 days a week.
IRS-approved tax preparation software is
available online and in retail stores. For information, visit IRS.gov/efile.
Free Help With Your Return
The Volunteer Income T ax Assistance (VITA)
program offers free tax help to people who generally have $69,000 or less in adjusted gross income, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. The T ax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program offers free
tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who
are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement -related issues unique
to seniors.
Y ou can go to IRS.gov to see your options
for preparing and filing your return, which include the following.
• Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile. See if
you qualify to use brand-name software to
prepare and e-file your federal tax return
for free.
• VITA. Go to IRS.gov/VITA, download the
free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887 to
find the nearest VITA location for free tax
return preparation.
• TCE. Go to IRS.gov/TCE, download the
free IRS2Go app, or call 888-227-7669 to
find the nearest TCE location for free tax
return preparation.
Using a Tax Professional
Many tax professionals electronically file tax returns for their clients. Y ou may personally enter
your PIN or complete Form 8879, IRS e-file Signature Authorization, to authorize the tax professional to enter your PIN on your return.
Note: T ax professionals may charge a fee
for IRS e-file. Fees can vary depending on the
professional and the specific services rendered.
When Do I
Have To File?
April 15, 2026, is the due date for filing your
2025 income tax return if you use the calendar
year. For a quick view of due dates for filing a
return with or without an extension of time to file
(discussed later), see T able 1-5.
T able 1-4. Free Ways To e-file
Use Free File for free tax software and free e-file.
• IRS partners offer name-brand products for free.
• Many taxpayers are eligible for Free File software.
• Everyone is eligible for Free File Fillable Forms, an electronic version of IRS paper forms.
• Free File software and Free File Fillable Forms are available only at IRS.gov/FreeFile.
Use VITA/TCE for free tax help from volunteers and free e-file.
• Volunteers prepare your return and e-file it for free.
• Some sites also offer do-it-yourself software.
• Y ou are eligible based either on your income or age.
• Sites are located nationwide. Find one near you by visiting IRS.gov/VITA.
T able 1-3.Other Situations When You Must File a 2025 Return
Y ou must file a return if any of the following apply for 2025.
1. Y ou owe any special taxes, including any of the following (see the instructions for Schedule 2 (Form 1040)).
a. Alternative minimum tax.
b. Additional tax on a qualified plan, including an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), or other tax-favored account.
c. Household employment taxes.
d. Social security and Medicare tax on tips you didn’t report to your employer or on wages you received from an employer who
didn’t withhold these taxes.
e. Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips you reported to your employer or on group-term life insurance
and additional taxes on health savings accounts.
f. Recapture taxes.
2. Y ou (or your spouse, if filing jointly) received health savings account, Archer MSA, or Medicare Advantage MSA distributions.
3. Y ou had net earnings from self-employment of at least $400.
4. Y ou had wages of $108.28 or more from a church or qualified church-controlled organization that is exempt from employer
social security and Medicare taxes.
5. Advance payments of the premium tax credit were made for you, your spouse, or a dependent who enrolled in coverage
through the Marketplace. Y ou or whoever enrolled you should have received Form(s) 1095-A showing the amount of the
advance payments.
6. Y ou are required to include amounts in income under section 965 or you have a net tax liability under section 965 that you are
paying in installments under section 965(h) or deferred by making an election under section 965(i).
7. Y ou purchased a new or used clean vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced the amount you paid at the time of sale by
transferring the credit to the dealer. See Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936).
Page 12 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
10 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 13]
If you use a fiscal year (a year ending on the
last day of any month except December, or a
52-53-week year), your income tax return is due
by the 15th day of the 4th month after the close
of your fiscal year.
When the due date for doing any act for tax
purposes—filing a return, paying taxes,
etc.—falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is delayed until the next business day.
Filing paper returns on time.  Y our paper return is filed on time if it is mailed in an envelope
that is properly addressed, has enough postage, and is postmarked by the due date. If you
send your return by registered mail, the date of
the registration is the postmark date. The registration is evidence that the return was delivered.
If you send a return by certified mail and have
your receipt postmarked by a postal employee,
the date on the receipt is the postmark date.
The postmarked certified mail receipt is evidence that the return was delivered.
Private delivery services.  If you choose to
mail your return, you can use certain private delivery services designated by the IRS to meet
the “timely mailing treated as timely filing/
paying” rule for tax returns and payments.
These private delivery services include only the
following.
• DHL Express 9:00, DHL Express 10:30,
DHL Express 12:00, DHL Express Worldwide, DHL Express Envelope, DHL Import
Express 10:30, DHL Import Express 12:00,
and DHL Import Express Worldwide.
• UPS Next Day Air Early A.M., UPS Next
Day Air, UPS Next Day Air Saver, UPS 2nd
Day Air, UPS 2nd Day Air A.M., UPS
Worldwide Express Plus, and UPS Worldwide Express.
• FedEx First Overnight, FedEx Priority
Overnight, FedEx Standard Overnight, FedEx 2 Day, FedEx International Next Flight
Out, FedEx International Priority, FedEx International First, and FedEx International
Economy.
T o check for any updates to the list of designated private delivery services, go to IRS.gov/
PDS. For the IRS mailing addresses to use if
you’re using a private delivery service, go to
IRS.gov/PDSStreetAddresses.
The private delivery service can tell you how
to get written proof of the mailing date.
Only the U.S. Postal Service can deliver to P .O. boxes. Y ou can’t use a private delivery service to make tax payments required to be sent to a P .O. box.
Filing electronic returns on time.  If you use
IRS e-file, your return is considered filed on time
if the authorized electronic return transmitter
postmarks the transmission by the due date. An
authorized electronic return transmitter is a participant in the IRS e-file program that transmits
electronic tax return information directly to the
IRS.
The electronic postmark is a record of when
the authorized electronic return transmitter received the transmission of your electronically
filed return on its host system. The date and
CAUTION
!
time in your time zone controls whether your
electronically filed return is timely.
Filing late.  If you don’t file your return by the
due date, you may have to pay a failure -to-file
penalty and interest. For more information, see
Penalties, later. Also see Interest under Amount
Y ou Owe, later.
If you were due a refund but you didn’t file a
return, you must generally file within 3 years
from the date the return was due (including extensions) to get that refund.
Nonresident alien.  If you are a nonresident
alien and earn wages subject to U.S. income
tax withholding, your 2025 U.S. income tax return (Form 1040-NR) is due by:
• April 15, 2026, if you use a calendar year;
or
• The 15th day of the 4th month after the end
of your fiscal year, if you use a fiscal year.
If you don’t earn wages subject to U.S. income tax withholding, your return is due by:
• June 15, 2026, if you use a calendar year;
or
• The 15th day of the 6th month after the end
of your fiscal year, if you use a fiscal year.
See Pub. 519 for more filing information.
Filing for a decedent.  If you must file a final
income tax return for a taxpayer who died during the year (a decedent), the return is due by
the 15th day of the 4th month after the end of
the decedent’s normal tax year. See Pub. 559.
Extensions of Time To File
Y ou may be able to get an extension of time to
file your return. There are three types of situations where you may qualify for an extension.
• Automatic extensions.
• Y ou are outside the United States.
• Y ou are serving in a combat zone.
Automatic Extension
If you can’t file your 2025 return by the due date,
you may be able to get an automatic 6 -month
extension of time to file.
Example. If your return is due on April 15,
2026, you will have until October 15, 2026, to
file.
If you don’t pay the tax due by the regular due date (April 15 for most taxpayers), you will owe interest. Y ou may
also be charged penalties, discussed later.
CAUTION
!
How to get the automatic extension.  Y ou
can get the automatic extension by:
1. Using IRS e-file (electronic filing), or
2. Filing a paper form.
E-file options. There are two ways you can
use e-file to get an extension of time to file.
Complete Form 4868 to use as a worksheet. If
you think you may owe tax when you file your
return, use Part II  of the form to estimate your
balance due. If you e-file Form 4868 to the IRS,
don’t send a paper Form 4868.
E-file using your personal computer or a
tax professional. Y ou can use a tax software
package with your personal computer or a tax
professional to file Form 4868 electronically.
Free File and Free File Fillable Forms, both
available at IRS.gov, allow you to prepare and
e-file Form 4868 for free. Y ou will need to provide certain information from your 2024 tax return. If you wish to make a payment by direct
transfer from your bank account, see Pay online
under How T o Pay, later, in this chapter.
E-file and pay by credit or debit card or
by direct transfer from your bank account.
Y ou can get an extension by paying part or all of
your estimate of tax due by using a credit or
debit card or by direct transfer from your bank
account. Y ou can do this by phone or over the
Internet. Y ou don’t file Form 4868. See Pay online under How T o Pay, later, in this chapter.
Filing a paper Form 4868. Y ou can get an extension of time to file by filing a paper Form
4868. If you are a fiscal year taxpayer, you must
file a paper Form 4868. Mail it to the address
shown in the form instructions. For more information, see Form 4868.
When to file.  Y ou must request the automatic
extension by the due date for your return. Y ou
can file your return any time before the 6 -month
extension period ends.
When you file your return.  Enter any payment you made related to the extension of time
to file on Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 10.
Individuals Outside the
United States
Y ou are allowed an automatic 2 -month extension, without filing Form 4868 (until June 15,
2026, if you use the calendar year), to file your
2025 return and pay any federal income tax due
if:
1. Y ou are a U.S. citizen or resident; and
2. On the due date of your return:
a. Y ou are living outside the United
States and Puerto Rico, and your
main place of business or post of duty
When To File Your 2025 Return
For U.S. citizens and residents who file returns on a calendar year
basis.
For Most Taxpayers
For Certain Taxpayers
Outside
 the United States
No extension requested April 15, 2026 June 15, 2026
Automatic extension October 15, 2026 October 15, 2026
T able 1-5.
Page 13 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 1 Filing Information 11

[PAGE 14]
is outside the United States and Puerto Rico; or
b. Y ou are in military or naval service on
duty outside the United States and
Puerto Rico.
However, if you pay the tax due after the regular due date (April 15 for most taxpayers), interest will be charged from that date until the
date the tax is paid.
If you served in a combat zone or qualified
hazardous duty area, you may be eligible for a
longer extension of time to file. See Individuals
Serving in Combat Zone , later, for special rules
that apply to you.
Married taxpayers.  If you file a joint return,
only one spouse has to qualify for this automatic
extension. If you and your spouse file separate
returns, the automatic extension applies only to
the spouse who qualifies.
How to get the extension.  T o use this automatic extension, you must attach a statement to
your return explaining what situation qualified
you for the extension. (See the situations listed
under (2), earlier.)
Extensions beyond 2 months. If you can’t file
your return within the automatic 2 -month extension period, you may be able to get an additional 4 -month extension, for a total of 6
months. File Form 4868 and check the box on
line 8.
No further extension.  An extension of more
than 6 months will generally not be granted.
However, if you are outside the United States
and meet certain tests, you may be granted a
longer extension. For more information, see Filing and Payment Due Dates in Pub. 54.
Individuals Serving in
Combat Zone
The deadline for filing your tax return, paying
any tax you may owe, and filing a claim for refund is automatically extended if you serve in a
combat zone. This applies to members of the
Armed Forces, as well as merchant marines
serving aboard vessels under the operational
control of the Department of Defense, Red
Cross personnel, accredited correspondents,
and civilians under the direction of the Armed
Forces in support of the Armed Forces.
Combat zone. A combat zone is any area the
President of the United States designates by
executive order as an area in which the U.S.
Armed Forces are engaging or have engaged in
combat. An area usually becomes a combat
zone and ceases to be a combat zone on the
dates the President designates by executive order. For purposes of the automatic extension,
the term “combat zone” includes the following
areas.
1. The Arabian peninsula area, effective January 17, 1991.
2. The Kosovo area, effective March 24,
1999.
3. The Afghanistan area, effective September 19, 2001.
See Pub. 3 for more detailed information on
the locations comprising each combat zone.
Pub. 3 also has information about other tax benefits available to military personnel serving in a
combat zone.
Extension period. The deadline for filing your
return, paying any tax due, filing a claim for refund, and taking other actions with the IRS is
extended in two steps. First, your deadline is
extended for 180 days after the later of:
1. The last day you are in a combat zone or
the last day the area qualifies as a combat
zone, or
2. The last day of any continuous qualified
hospitalization (defined later) for injury
from service in the combat zone.
Second, in addition to the 180 days, your
deadline is also extended by the number of
days you had left to take action with the IRS
when you entered the combat zone. For example, you have 3 1/2 months (January 1–April 15)
to file your tax return. Any days left in this period
when you entered the combat zone (or the entire 3 1/2 months if you entered it before the beginning of the year) are added to the 180 days.
See How Much Extra Time Do These Extensions Give Me? in Pub. 3 for more information.
The rules on the extension for filing your return also apply when you are deployed outside
the United States (away from your permanent
duty station) while participating in a designated
contingency operation.
Qualified hospitalization.  The hospitalization
must be the result of an injury received while
serving in a combat zone or a contingency operation. Qualified hospitalization means:
• Any hospitalization outside the United
States, and
• Up to 5 years of hospitalization in the United States.
See Pub. 3 for more information on qualified
hospitalizations.
How Do I Prepare
My Return?
This section explains how to get ready to complete your tax return and when to report your income and expenses. It also explains how to
complete certain sections of the form.
Electronic returns.  For information you may
find useful in preparing an electronic return, see
File Electronically, earlier.
Substitute tax forms. Y ou can’t use your own
version of a tax form unless it meets the requirements explained in Pub. 1167.
Form W -2. If you were an employee, you
should receive Form W -2 from your employer.
Y ou will need the information from this form to
prepare your return. See Form W-2 under Credit
for Withholding and Estimated T ax for 2025  in
chapter 4.
Y our employer is required to provide or send
Form W-2 to you no later than February 2, 2026.
If it is mailed, you should allow adequate time to
receive it before contacting your employer. If
you still don’t get the form by early February, the
IRS can help you by requesting the form from
your employer. When you request IRS help, be
prepared to provide the following information.
• Y our name, address (including ZIP code),
and phone number.
• Y our SSN.
• Y our dates of employment.
• Y our employer’s name, address (including
ZIP code), and phone number.
Form 1099. If you received certain types of income, you may receive a Form 1099. For example, if you received taxable interest of $10 or
more, the payer is required to provide or send
Form 1099 to you no later than February 2,
2026 (or by February 17, 2026, if furnished by a
broker). If it is mailed, you should allow adequate time to receive it before contacting the
payer. If you still don’t get the form by February
17 (or by March 2, 2026, if furnished by a
broker), call the IRS for help.
When Do I Report My
Income and Expenses?
Y ou must figure your taxable income on the basis of a tax year. A “tax year” is an annual accounting period used for keeping records and
reporting income and expenses. Y ou must account for your income and expenses in a way
that clearly shows your taxable income. The
way you do this is called an accounting method.
This section explains which accounting periods
and methods you can use.
Accounting Periods
Most individual tax returns cover a calendar
year—the 12 months from January 1 through
December 31. If you don’t use a calendar year,
your accounting period is a fiscal year. A regular
fiscal year is a 12-month period that ends on the
last day of any month except December. A
52-53-week fiscal year varies from 52 to 53
weeks and always ends on the same day of the
week.
Y ou choose your accounting period (tax
year) when you file your first income tax return.
It can’t be longer than 12 months.
More information.  For more information on
accounting periods, including how to change
your accounting period, see Pub. 538.
Accounting Methods
Y our accounting method is the way you account
for your income and expenses. Most taxpayers
use either the cash method or an accrual
method. Y ou choose a method when you file
your first income tax return. If you want to
change your accounting method after that, you
must generally get IRS approval. Use Form
3115 to request an accounting method change.
Cash method.  If you use this method, report
all items of income in the year in which you actually or constructively receive them. Generally,
you deduct all expenses in the year you actually
pay them. This is the method most individual
taxpayers use.
Constructive receipt.  Generally, you constructively receive income when it is credited to
your account or set apart in any way that makes
Page 14 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
12 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 15]
it available to you. Y ou don’t need to have physical possession of it. For example, interest credited to your bank account on December 31,
2025, is taxable income to you in 2025 if you
could have withdrawn it in 2025 (even if the
amount isn’t entered in your records or withdrawn until 2026).
Garnished wages.  If your employer uses
your wages to pay your debts, or if your wages
are attached or garnished, the full amount is
constructively received by you. Y ou must include these wages in income for the year you
would have received them.
Debts paid for you.  If another person cancels or pays your debts (but not as a gift or
loan), you have constructively received the
amount and must generally include it in your
gross income for the year. See Canceled Debts
in chapter 8 for more information.
Payment to third party.  If a third party is
paid income from property you own, you have
constructively received the income. It is the
same as if you had actually received the income
and paid it to the third party.
Payment to an agent.  Income an agent receives for you is income you constructively received in the year the agent receives it. If you indicate in a contract that your income is to be
paid to another person, you must include the
amount in your gross income when the other
person receives it.
Check received or available. A valid check
that was made available to you before the end
of the tax year is constructively received by you
in that year. A check that was “made available
to you” includes a check you have already received, but not cashed or deposited. It also includes, for example, your last paycheck of the
year that your employer made available for you
to pick up at the office before the end of the
year. It is constructively received by you in that
year whether or not you pick it up before the end
of the year or wait to receive it by mail after the
end of the year.
No constructive receipt.  There may be
facts to show that you didn’t constructively receive income.
Example. Lennon, a teacher, agreed to the
school board’s condition that, in Lennon’s absence, Lennon would receive only the difference between Lennon’s regular salary and the
salary of a substitute teacher hired by the
school board. Therefore, Lennon didn’t constructively receive the amount by which Lennon’s salary was reduced to pay the substitute
teacher.
Accrual method.  If you use an accrual
method, you generally report income when you
earn it, rather than when you receive it. Y ou
generally deduct your expenses when you incur
them, rather than when you pay them.
Income paid in advance.  An advance payment of income is generally included in gross
income in the year you receive it. Y our method
of accounting doesn’t matter as long as the income is available to you. An advance payment
may include rent or interest you receive in advance and pay for services you will perform
later.
A limited deferral until the next tax year may
be allowed for certain advance payments. See
Pub. 538 for specific information.
Additional information. For more information
on accounting methods, including how to
change your accounting method, see Pub. 538.
Social Security Number
(SSN)
Y ou must enter your SSN on your return. If you
are married, enter the SSNs for both you and
your spouse, whether you file jointly or separately.
If you are filing a joint return, include the
SSNs in the same order as the names. Use this
same order in submitting other forms and documents to the IRS.
If you, or your spouse if filing jointly,
don’t have an SSN (or ITIN) issued either on or on or before the due date of
your 2025 return (including extensions), you
can’t claim certain tax benefits on your original
or an amended 2025 return.
Once you are issued an SSN, use it to file
your tax return. Use your SSN to file your tax return even if your SSN does not authorize employment or if you have been issued an SSN
that authorizes employment and you lose your
employment authorization. An ITIN will not be
issued to you once you have been issued an
SSN. If you received your SSN after previously
using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN. Use your
SSN instead.
Check that both the name and SSN on your
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, W -2, and 1099 agree
with your social security card. If they don’t, certain deductions and credits on your Form 1040
or 1040-SR may be reduced or disallowed and
you may not receive credit for your social security earnings. If your Form W -2 shows an incorrect SSN or name, notify your employer or the
form-issuing agent as soon as possible to make
sure your earnings are credited to your social
security record. If the name or SSN on your social security card is incorrect, call the Social Security Administration (SSA) at 800-772-1213.
Name change. If you changed your name because of marriage, divorce, etc., be sure to report the change to your local SSA office before
filing your return. This prevents delays in processing your return and issuing refunds. It also
safeguards your future social security benefits.
Dependent’s SSN. Y ou must provide the SSN
of each dependent you claim, regardless of the
dependent’s age. This requirement applies to all
dependents (not just your children) claimed on
your tax return.
Y our child must have an SSN valid for
employment issued before the due
date of your 2025 return (including extensions) to be considered a qualifying child for
certain tax benefits on your original or amended
2025 return. See chapter 14.
Exception. If your child was born and died
in 2025 and didn’t have an SSN, enter “DIED”
on row (3) of the Dependents section of Form
1040 or 1040 -SR and include a copy of the
child’s birth certificate, death certificate, or
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
hospital records. The document must show that
the child was born alive.
No SSN. File Form SS -5, Application for a Social Security Card, with your local SSA office to
get an SSN for yourself or your dependent. It
usually takes about 2 weeks to get an SSN. If
you or your dependent isn’t eligible for an SSN,
see Individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN), later.
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien, you
must show proof of age, identity, and citizenship
or alien status with your Form SS -5. If you are
12 or older and have never been assigned an
SSN, you must appear in person with this proof
at an SSA office.
Form SS-5 is available at any SSA office, on
the Internet at SSA.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf, or by
calling 800-772-1213. If you have any questions
about which documents you can use as proof of
age, identity, or citizenship, contact your SSA
office.
If your dependent doesn’t have an SSN by
the time your return is due, you may want to ask
for an extension of time to file, as explained earlier under When Do I Have T o File.
If you don’t provide a required SSN or if you
provide an incorrect SSN, your tax may be increased and any refund may be reduced.
Adoption taxpayer identification number
(ATIN). If you are in the process of adopting a
child who is a U.S. citizen or resident and can’t
get an SSN for the child until the adoption is final, you can apply for an ATIN to use instead of
an SSN.
File Form W -7A, Application for T axpayer
Identification Number for Pending U.S. Adoptions, with the IRS to get an ATIN if all of the following are true.
• Y ou have a child living with you who was
placed in your home for legal adoption.
• Y ou can’t get the child’s existing SSN even
though you have made a reasonable attempt to get it from the birth parents, the
placement agency, and other persons.
• Y ou can’t get an SSN for the child from the
SSA because, for example, the adoption
isn’t final.
• Y ou are eligible to claim the child as a dependent on your tax return.
After the adoption is final, you must apply for an
SSN for the child. Y ou can’t continue using the
ATIN.
See Form W-7A for more information.
Nonresident alien spouse. If your spouse is a
nonresident alien, your spouse must have either
an SSN or an ITIN if:
• Y ou file a joint return, or
• Y our spouse is filing a separate return.
If your spouse isn’t eligible for an SSN, see the
following discussion on ITINs.
Individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN). The IRS will issue you an ITIN if you are
a nonresident or resident alien and you don’t
have and aren’t eligible to get an SSN. This also
applies to an alien spouse or dependent. T o apply for an ITIN, file Form W -7 with the IRS. It
Page 15 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 1 Filing Information 13

[PAGE 16]
usually takes about 7 weeks to get an ITIN. Enter the ITIN on your tax return wherever an SSN
is requested.
Make sure your ITIN hasn’t expired. See Individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN)
renewal, earlier, for more information on expiration and renewal of ITINs. Y ou can also find
more information at IRS.gov/ITIN.
If you are applying for an ITIN for yourself, your spouse, or a dependent in order to file your tax return, attach your
completed tax return to your Form W-7. See the
Form W-7 instructions for how and where to file.
Y ou can’t e-file a return using an ITIN in
the calendar year the ITIN is issued;
however, you can  e-file returns in the
following years.
ITIN for tax use only.  An ITIN is for federal
tax use only. It doesn’t entitle you to social security benefits or change your employment or
immigration status under U.S. law.
Penalty for not providing social security
number. If you don’t include your SSN or the
SSN of your spouse or dependent as required,
you may have to pay a penalty. See the discussion on Penalties, later, for more information.
SSN on correspondence.  If you write to the
IRS about your tax account, be sure to include
your SSN (and the name and SSN of your
spouse, if you filed a joint return) in your correspondence. Because your SSN is used to identify your account, this helps the IRS respond to
your correspondence promptly.
Presidential Election
Campaign Fund
This fund helps pay for Presidential election
campaigns. The fund also helps pay for pediatric medical research. If you want $3 to go to
this fund, check the box. If you are filing a joint
return, your spouse can also have $3 go to the
fund. If you check the box, your tax or refund
won’t change.
Computations
The following information may be useful in making the return easier to complete.
Rounding off dollars. Y ou can round off cents
to whole dollars on your return and schedules. If
you do round to whole dollars, you must round
all amounts. T o round, drop amounts under 50
cents and increase amounts from 50 to 99
cents to the next dollar. For example, $1.39 becomes $1 and $2.50 becomes $3.
If you have to add two or more amounts to
figure the amount to enter on a line, include
cents when adding the amounts and round off
only the total.
If you are entering amounts that include
cents, make sure to include the decimal point.
There is no cents column on Form 1040 or
1040-SR.
Equal amounts. If you are asked to enter the
smaller or larger of two equal amounts, enter
that amount.
TIP
CAUTION
!
Negative amounts.  If you file a paper return
and you need to enter a negative amount, put
the amount in parentheses rather than using a
minus sign. T o combine positive and negative
amounts, add all the positive amounts together
and then subtract the negative amounts.
Attachments
Depending on the form you file and the items reported on your return, you may have to complete additional schedules and forms and attach
them to your paper return.
Y ou may be able to file a paperless return using IRS e-file. There’s nothing to
attach or mail, not even your Forms
W-2. See File Electronically, earlier.
Form W-2. Form W-2 is a statement from your
employer of wages and other compensation
paid to you and taxes withheld from your pay.
Y ou should have a Form W -2 from each employer. If you file a paper return, be sure to attach a copy of Form W -2 in the place indicated
on your return. For more information, see Form
W-2 in chapter 4.
Form 1099-R. If you received a Form 1099 -R
showing federal income tax withheld, and you
file a paper return, attach a copy of that form in
the place indicated on your return.
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. If you file a paper return, attach any forms and schedules behind
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR in order of the “Attachment Sequence No.” shown in the upper right
corner of the form or schedule. Then, arrange
all other statements or attachments in the same
order as the forms and schedules they relate to
and attach them last. Don’t attach items unless
required to do so.
Third Party Designee
If you want to allow your preparer, a friend, a
family member, or any other person you choose
to discuss your 2025 tax return with the IRS,
check the “Y es” box in the “Third Party Designee” area of your return. Also, enter the designee’s name, phone number, and any five digits
the designee chooses as their personal identification number (PIN).
If you check the “Y es” box, you, and your
spouse if filing a joint return, are authorizing the
IRS to call the designee to answer any questions that arise during the processing of your return. Y ou are also authorizing the designee to:
• Give information that is missing from your
return to the IRS;
• Call the IRS for information about the processing of your return or the status of your
refund or payments;
• Receive copies of notices or transcripts related to your return, upon request; and
• Respond to certain IRS notices about math
errors, offsets (see Refunds, later), and return preparation.
Y ou aren’t authorizing the designee to receive any refund check, bind you to anything
(including any additional tax liability), or
otherwise represent you before the IRS. If you
TIP
want to expand the designee’s authorization,
see Pub. 947.
The authorization will automatically end no
later than the due date (without any extensions)
for filing your 2026 tax return. This is April 15,
2027, for most people.
See your form instructions for more information.
Signatures
Y ou must sign and date your return. If you file a
joint return, both you and your spouse must sign
the return, even if only one of you had income.
If you file a joint return, both spouses
are generally liable for the tax, and the
entire tax liability may be assessed
against either spouse. See chapter 2.
Y our return isn’t considered a valid return unless you sign it in accordance with the requirements in the instructions for your return.
Y ou must handwrite your signature on your
return if you file it on paper. Digital, electronic, or
typed-font signatures are not valid signatures
for Forms 1040 or 1040-SR filed on paper.
If you electronically file your return, you can
use an electronic signature to sign your return in
accordance with the requirements contained in
the instructions for your return.
Failure to sign your return in accordance
with these requirements may prevent you from
obtaining a refund.
Enter your occupation. If you file a joint return, enter both your occupation and your spouse’s occupation.
When someone can sign for you.  Y ou can
appoint an agent to sign your return if you are:
1. Unable to sign the return because of disease or injury,
2. Absent from the United States for a continuous period of at least 60 days before the
due date for filing your return, or
3. Given permission to do so by the IRS office in your area.
Power of attorney.  A return signed by an
agent in any of these cases must have a power
of attorney (POA) attached that authorizes the
agent to sign for you. Y ou can use a POA that
states that the agent is granted authority to sign
the return, or you can use Form 2848. Part I of
Form 2848 must state that the agent is granted
authority to sign the return.
Court-appointed conservator, guardian, or
other fiduciary.  If you are a court -appointed
conservator, guardian, or other fiduciary for a
mentally or physically incompetent individual
who has to file a tax return, sign your name for
the individual. File Form 56.
Unable to sign.  If the taxpayer is mentally
competent but physically unable to sign the return or POA, a valid “signature” is defined under
state law. It can be anything that clearly indicates the taxpayer’s intent to sign. For example,
the taxpayer’s “X” with the signatures of two witnesses might be considered a valid signature
under a state’s law.
CAUTION
!
Page 16 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
14 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 17]
Spouse unable to sign.  If your spouse is unable to sign for any reason, see Signing a joint
return in chapter 2.
Child’s return. If a child has to file a tax return
but can’t sign the return, the child’s parent,
guardian, or another legally responsible person
must sign the child’s name, followed by the
words “By (your signature), parent for minor
child.”
Paid Preparer
Generally, anyone you pay to prepare, assist in
preparing, or review your tax return must sign it
and fill in the other blanks, including their Preparer T ax Identification Number (PTIN), in the
paid preparer’s area of your return.
Many preparers are required to e-file the tax
returns they prepare. They sign these e-filed returns using their tax preparation software. However, you can choose to have your return completed on paper if you prefer. In that case, the
paid preparer can sign the paper return manually or use a rubber stamp or mechanical device. The preparer is personally responsible for
affixing their signature to the return.
If the preparer is self -employed (that is, not
employed by any person or business to prepare
the return), the preparer should check the
self-employed box in the “Paid Preparer Use
Only” space on the return.
The preparer must give you a copy of your
return in addition to the copy filed with the IRS.
If you prepare your own return, leave this
area blank. If another person prepares your return and doesn’t charge you, that person
shouldn’t sign your return.
If you have questions about whether a preparer must sign your return, contact any IRS office.
Refunds
When you complete your return, you will determine if you paid more income tax than you
owed. If so, you can get a refund of the amount
you overpaid or you can choose to apply all or
part of the overpayment to your next year’s
(2026) estimated tax.
If you choose to have a 2025 overpayment applied to your 2026 estimated
tax, you can’t change your mind and
have any of it refunded to you after the due date
(without extensions) of your 2025 return.
Follow the Instructions for Form 1040 to
complete the entries to claim your refund and/or
to apply your overpayment to your 2026 estimated tax.
If your refund for 2025 is large, you may
want to decrease the amount of income tax withheld from your pay in
2026. See chapter 4 for more information.
Have your refund deposited directly into your
checking, savings, health savings, brokerage, or
other similar account, including an individual retirement arrangement (IRA). Follow the Instructions for Form 1040 to request direct deposit.
CAUTION
!
TIP
Simple. Safe. Secure.
DIRECT DEPOSIT
Starting in October 2025, the IRS will generally
stop issuing paper checks for federal disbursements, including tax refunds, unless an exception applies. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/ModernPayments.
Don’t request a deposit of any part of your
refund to an account that isn’t in your name.
Don’t allow your tax preparer to deposit any part
of your refund into the preparer’s account. The
number of direct deposits to a single account or
prepaid debit card is limited to three refunds a
year. Learn more at IRS.gov/DepositLimit.
IRA.  Y ou can have your refund (or part of it) directly deposited to a traditional IRA or Roth IRA,
but not a SIMPLE IRA. Y ou must establish the
IRA at a bank or financial institution before you
request direct deposit.
Split refunds.  If you choose direct deposit,
you may be able to split the refund and have it
deposited into more than one account. Complete Form 8888 and attach it to your return.
Overpayment less than one dollar.  If your
overpayment is less than $1, you won’t get a refund unless you ask for it in writing.
Refund more or less than expected.  If you
receive a refund you aren’t entitled to, or for an
overpayment that should have been credited to
estimated tax, hold the refund in your account.
Check your online account at IRS.gov/Account
or contact the IRS.
If you receive more than the refund you
claimed, hold the refund in your account until
you receive a notice explaining the difference.
If your refund is for less than you claimed, it
should be accompanied by a notice explaining
the difference.
If you didn’t receive a notice and you have
any questions about the amount of your refund,
you should wait 2 weeks. If you still haven’t received a notice, check your online account at
IRS.gov/Account or contact the IRS.
Offset against debts.  If you are due a refund
but haven’t paid certain amounts you owe, all or
part of your refund may be used to pay all or
part of the past -due amount. This includes
past-due federal income tax, other federal debts
(such as student loans), state income tax, child
and spousal support payments, and state unemployment compensation debt. Y ou will be notified if the refund you claimed has been offset
against your debts.
Joint return and injured spouse.  When a
joint return is filed and only one spouse owes a
past-due amount, the other spouse can be considered an injured spouse. An injured spouse
should file Form 8379, Injured Spouse Allocation, if both of the following apply and the
spouse wants a refund of their share of the
overpayment shown on the joint return.
1. Y ou aren’t legally obligated to pay the
past-due amount.
2. Y ou made and reported tax payments
(such as federal income tax withheld from
your wages or estimated tax payments), or
claimed a refundable tax credit (see the
credits listed under Who Should File, earlier).
Note: If the injured spouse’s residence was
in a community property state at any time during
the tax year, special rules may apply. See the
Instructions for Form 8379.
If you haven’t filed your joint return and you
know that your joint refund will be offset, file
Form 8379 with your return. Y ou should receive
your refund within 14 weeks from the date the
paper return is filed or within 11 weeks from the
date the return is filed electronically.
If you filed your joint return and your joint refund was offset, file Form 8379 by itself. When
filed after offset, it can take up to 8 weeks to receive your refund. Don’t attach the previously
filed tax return, but do include copies of all
Forms W-2 and W-2G for both spouses and any
Forms 1099 that show income tax withheld. The
processing of Form 8379 may be delayed if
these forms aren’t attached, or if the form is incomplete when filed.
A separate Form 8379 must be filed for each
tax year to be considered.
An injured spouse claim is different
from an innocent spouse relief request.
An injured spouse uses Form 8379 to
request the division of the tax overpayment attributed to each spouse. An innocent spouse
uses Form 8857, Request for Innocent Spouse
Relief, to request relief from joint liability for tax,
interest, and penalties on a joint return for items
of the other spouse (or former spouse) that
were incorrectly reported on the joint return. For
information on innocent spouses, see Relief
from joint responsibility  under Filing a Joint Return in chapter 2.
Amount You Owe
When you complete your return, you will determine if you have paid the full amount of tax that
you owe. If you owe additional tax, you should
pay it with your return.
Y ou don’t have to pay if the amount you
owe is under $1.
If the IRS figures your tax for you, you will receive a bill for any tax that is due. Y ou should
pay this bill within 30 days (or by the due date of
your return, if later). See T ax Figured by IRS in
chapter 13.
If you don’t pay your tax when due, you
may have to pay a failure -to-pay penalty. See Penalties, later. For more information about your balance due, see Pub.
594.
If the amount you owe for 2025 is large,
you may want to increase the amount
of income tax withheld from your pay or
make estimated tax payments for 2026. See
chapter 4 for more information.
How To Pay
Y ou can pay online, by phone, by mobile device,
in cash, or by check or money order. Don’t include any estimated tax payment for 2026 in
this payment. Instead, make the estimated tax
payment separately.
CAUTION
!
TIP
CAUTION
!
TIP
Page 17 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 1 Filing Information 15

[PAGE 18]
Insufficient funds.  The penalty for making a
payment to the IRS that was dishonored is $25
or 2% of the dishonored payment amount,
whichever is more. However, if the dishonored
payment amount is less than $25, the penalty
equals the amount paid. This penalty applies to
all acceptable forms of payment if the IRS
doesn’t receive the funds.
Pay online.  Paying online is convenient and
secure and helps make sure we get your payments on time.
Y ou can pay online with a direct transfer
from your bank account using IRS Direct Pay or
the Electronic Federal T ax Payment System
(EFTPS), or by debit or credit card.
T o pay your taxes online or for more information, go to IRS.gov/Payments.
Pay by phone.  Paying by phone is another
safe and secure method of paying online. Use
one of the following methods.
• EFTPS.
• Debit or credit card.
T o get more information about EFTPS or to
enroll in EFTPS, visit EFTPS.gov or call
800-555-4477. T o contact EFTPS using T elecommunications Relay Services (TRS) for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a
speech disability, dial 711 and then provide the
TRS assistant the 800 -555-4477 number or
800-733-4829. Additional information about
EFTPS is also available in Pub. 966.
T o pay using a debit or credit card, you can
call one of the following service providers.
There is a convenience fee charged by these
providers that varies by provider, card type, and
payment amount.
Link2Gov Corporation
888-PAY-1040TM (888-729-1040)
PAY1040.com
ACI Payments, Inc.
888-UPAY-TAXTM (888-872-9829)
fed.acipayonline.com
For the latest details on how to pay by
phone, go to IRS.gov/Payments.
Pay by cash. Y ou can pay your taxes in cash.
T o find out about the different cash payment
methods, go to IRS.gov/PayCash. Don’t send
cash payments through the mail.
Pay by check or money order.  Before submitting a payment through the mail, please consider alternative methods. One of our safe,
quick, and easy electronic payment options
might be right for you. If you choose to mail a
tax payment, attach Form 1040 -V . For the most
up-to-date information on Form 1040 -V , go to
IRS.gov/Form1040V.
Estimated tax payments.  Don’t include any
2026 estimated tax payment in the payment for
your 2025 income tax return. See chapter 4 for
information on how to pay estimated tax.
Interest
Interest is charged on tax you don’t pay by the
due date of your return. Interest is charged even
if you get an extension of time for filing.
If the IRS figures your tax for you, to
avoid interest for late payment, you
must pay the bill by the date specified
on the bill or by the due date of your return,
whichever is later. For information, see T ax Figured by IRS in chapter 13.
Interest on penalties.  Interest is charged on
the failure -to-file penalty, the accuracy -related
penalty, and the fraud penalty from the due date
of the return (including extensions) to the date
of payment. Interest on other penalties starts on
the date of notice and demand, but isn’t
charged on penalties paid within 21 calendar
days from the date of the notice (or within 10
business days if the notice is for $100,000 or
more).
Interest due to IRS error or delay.  All or part
of any interest you were charged can be forgiven if the interest is due to an unreasonable
error or delay by an officer or employee of the
IRS in performing a ministerial or managerial
act.
A ministerial act is a procedural or mechanical act that occurs during the processing of your
case. A managerial act includes personnel
transfers and extended personnel training. A
decision concerning the proper application of
federal tax law isn’t a ministerial or managerial
act.
The interest can be forgiven only if you
aren’t responsible in any important way for the
error or delay and the IRS has notified you in
writing of the deficiency or payment. For more
information, see Pub. 556.
Interest and certain penalties may also be
suspended for a limited period if you filed your
return by the due date (including extensions)
and the IRS doesn’t provide you with a notice
specifically stating your liability and the basis for
it before the close of the 36-month period beginning on the later of:
• The date the return is filed, or
• The due date of the return without regard
to extensions.
For more information, see Pub. 556.
Installment Agreement
If you can’t pay the full amount due with your return, you can ask to make monthly installment
payments for the full or a partial amount. However, you will be charged interest and may be
charged a late payment penalty on the tax not
paid by the date your return is due, even if your
request to pay in installments is granted. If your
request is granted, you must also pay a fee. T o
limit the interest and penalty charges, pay as
much of the tax as possible with your return. But
before requesting an installment agreement,
you should consider other less costly alternatives, such as a bank loan or credit card payment.
T o apply for an installment agreement online, go to IRS.gov/OPA. Y ou can also use Form
9465.
In addition to paying by check or money order, you can use a credit or debit card or direct
payment from your bank account to make installment agreement payments. See How T o
Pay, earlier.
TIP
Gift To Reduce Debt
Held by the Public
Y ou can make a contribution (gift) to reduce debt held by the public. If you
wish to do so, go to Pay.gov and make
a contribution by credit card, debit card, PayPal,
checking account, or savings account.
Don’t add this gift to any tax you owe.
For information on making this type of gift
online, go to T reasururyDirect.gov/Help-Center/
Public-Debt-FAQs/#DebtFinance and see the
information under “How do you make a contribution to reduce the debt?”
Y ou may be able to deduct this gift as a
charitable contribution on next year’s tax return
if you itemize your deductions on Schedule A
(Form 1040).
Name and Address
Fill in your name and address in the appropriate
area of Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. If you are married filing a separate return, enter your spouse’s
name in the entry space below the filing status
checkboxes instead of below your name. If you
are currently incarcerated, enter your inmate
identifying number near your last name.
Y ou must include your SSN in the correct place on your tax return.
P .O. box. If your post office doesn’t deliver mail
to your street address and you have a P .O. box,
enter your P .O. box number on the line for your
present home address instead of your street address.
Foreign address. If you have foreign address,
enter the city name on the appropriate line.
Don’t enter any other information on that line,
but do complete the spaces below that line
(Foreign country name, Foreign province/state/
county, and Foreign postal code).
Don’t abbreviate the country name.
Where Do I File?
After you complete your return, you must send it
to the IRS. If you must mail your return, mail it to
the address shown in the Instructions for Form
1040. See File Electronically, earlier.
What Happens After
I File?
After you send your return to the IRS, you may
have some questions. This section discusses
concerns you may have about recordkeeping,
your refund, and what to do if you move.
What Records Should
I Keep?
This part discusses why you should keep records, what kinds of records you should keep,
and how long you should keep them.
CAUTION
!
Page 18 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
16 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 19]
Y ou must keep records so that you can
prepare a complete and accurate income tax return. The law doesn’t require any special form of records. However, you
should keep all receipts, canceled checks or
other proof of payment, and any other records
to support any deductions or credits you claim.
If you file a claim for refund, you must be
able to prove by your records that you have
overpaid your tax.
This part doesn’t discuss the records you
should keep when operating a business. For information on business records, see Pub. 583.
Why Keep Records?
Good records help you:
• Identify sources of income. Y our records
can identify the sources of your income to
help you separate business from nonbusiness income and taxable from nontaxable
income.
• Keep track of expenses. Y ou can use
your records to identify expenses for which
you can claim a deduction. This helps you
determine if you can itemize deductions on
your tax return.
• Keep track of the basis of property. Y ou
need to keep records that show the basis
of your property. This includes the original
cost or other basis of the property and any
improvements you made.
• Prepare tax returns. Y ou need records to
prepare your tax return.
• Support items reported on tax returns.
The IRS may question an item on your return. Y our records will help you explain any
item and arrive at the correct tax. If you
can’t produce the correct documents, you
may have to pay additional tax and be subject to penalties.
Kinds of Records To Keep
The IRS doesn’t require you to keep your records in a particular way. Keep them in a manner that allows you and the IRS to determine
your correct tax.
Y ou can use your checkbook to keep a record of your income and expenses. Y ou also
need to keep documents, such as receipts and
sales slips, that can help prove a deduction.
In this section, you will find guidance about
basic records that everyone should keep. The
section also provides guidance about specific
records you should keep for certain items.
Electronic records. All requirements that apply to hard copy books and records also apply
to electronic storage systems that maintain tax
books and records. When you replace hard
copy books and records, you must maintain the
electronic storage systems for as long as they
are material to the administration of tax law.
For details on electronic storage system requirements, see Revenue Procedure 97 -22,
which is on page 9 of Internal Revenue Bulletin
1997-13 at IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb97-13.pdf.
Copies of tax returns.  Y ou should keep copies of your tax returns as part of your tax reRECORDS
cords. They can help you prepare future tax returns, and you will need them if you file an
amended return or are audited. Copies of your
returns and other records can be helpful to your
survivor or the executor or administrator of your
estate.
Y ou can get a transcript, review your most
recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted
gross income from your online account. T o create or access your online account go to
IRS.gov/Account.
If necessary, you can request a copy of a return and all attachments (including Form W -2)
from the IRS by using Form 4506. There is a
charge for a copy of a return. For information on
the cost and where to file, see the Instructions
for Form 4506.
If you just need information from your return,
you can order a transcript in one of the following
ways.
• Access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
• Go to IRS.gov/T ranscript.
• Use Form 4506-T or Form 4506T-EZ.
• Call 800-908-9946.
There is no fee for a transcript. For more information, see Form 4506-T .
Basic Records
Basic records are documents that everybody
should keep. These are the records that prove
your income and expenses. If you own a home
or investments, your basic records should contain documents related to those items.
Income. Y our basic records prove the amounts
you report as income on your tax return. Y our income may include wages, dividends, interest,
and partnership or S corporation distributions.
Y our records can also prove that certain
amounts aren’t taxable, such as tax -exempt interest.
Note: If you receive a Form W-2, keep Copy
C until you begin receiving social security benefits. This will help protect your benefits in case
there is a question about your work record or
earnings in a particular year.
Expenses. Y our basic records prove the expenses for which you claim a deduction (or
credit) on your tax return. Y our deductions may
include alimony, charitable contributions, mortgage interest, and real estate taxes. Y ou may
also have childcare expenses for which you can
claim a credit.
Home. Y our basic records should enable you
to determine the basis or adjusted basis of your
home. Y ou need this information to determine if
you have a gain or loss when you sell your
home or to figure depreciation if you use part of
your home for business purposes or for rent.
Y our records should show the purchase price,
settlement or closing costs, and the cost of any
improvements. They may also show any casualty losses deducted and insurance reimbursements for casualty losses.
For detailed information on basis, including
which settlement or closing costs are included
in the basis of your home, see Pub. 551.
When you sell your home, your records
should show the sales price and any selling expenses, such as commissions. For information
on selling your home, see Pub. 523.
Investments. Y our basic records should enable you to determine your basis in an investment and whether you have a gain or loss when
you sell it. Investments include stocks, bonds,
and mutual funds. Y our records should show the
purchase price, sales price, and commissions.
They may also show any reinvested dividends,
stock splits and dividends, load charges, and
original issue discount (OID).
For information on stocks, bonds, and mutual funds, see Pub. 550 and Pub. 551.
Proof of Payment
One of your basic records is proof of payment.
Y ou should keep these records to support certain amounts shown on your tax return. Proof of
payment alone isn’t proof that the item claimed
on your return is allowable. Y ou should also
keep other documents that will help prove that
the item is allowable.
Generally, you prove payment with a cash
receipt, financial account statement, credit card
statement, canceled check, or substitute check.
If you make payments in cash, you should get a
dated and signed receipt showing the amount
and the reason for the payment.
If you make payments using your bank account, you may be able to prove payment with
an account statement.
Account statements.  Y ou may be able to
prove payment with a legible financial account
statement prepared by your bank or other financial institution.
Pay statements. Y ou may have deductible expenses withheld from your paycheck, such as
medical insurance premiums. Y ou should keep
your year-end or final pay statements as proof
of payment of these expenses.
How Long To Keep
Records
Y ou must keep your records as long as they
may be needed for the administration of any
provision of the Internal Revenue Code. Generally, this means you must keep records that support items shown on your return until the period
of limitations for that return runs out.
The period of limitations is the period of time
in which you can amend your return to claim a
credit or refund or the IRS can assess additional
tax. T able 1-6 contains the periods of limitations
that apply to income tax returns. Unless otherwise stated, the years refer to the period beginning after the return was filed. Returns filed before the due date are treated as being filed on
the due date.
Period of LimitationsT able 1-6.
IF you... THEN the
period is...
1 File a return and (2),
(3), and (4) don’t apply
to you,
3 years.
Page 19 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 1 Filing Information 17

[PAGE 20]
2 Don’t report income
that you should and it is
more than 25% of the
gross income shown on
your return,
6 years.
3 File a fraudulent return, No limit.
4 Don’t file a return, No limit.
5 File a claim for credit or
refund after you filed
your return,
The later of 3
years or 2
years after tax
was paid.
6 File a claim for a loss
from worthless
securities or bad debt
deduction,
7 years.
Property. Keep records relating to property until the period of limitations expires for the year in
which you dispose of the property in a taxable
disposition. Y ou must keep these records to figure your basis for computing gain or loss when
you sell or otherwise dispose of the property.
Generally, if you received property in a nontaxable exchange, your basis in that property is
the same as the basis of the property you gave
up. Y ou must keep the records on the old property, as well as the new property, until the period
of limitations expires for the year in which you
dispose of the new property in a taxable disposition.
Refund Information
Y ou can go online to check the status of your
2025 refund 24 hours after the IRS receives
your e-filed return, or 4 weeks after you mail a
paper return. If you filed Form 8379 with your return, allow 14 weeks (11 weeks if you filed electronically) before checking your refund status.
Be sure to have a copy of your 2025 tax return
available because you will need to know the filing status, the first SSN shown on the return,
and the exact whole -dollar amount of the refund. T o check on your refund, do one of the following.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the free IRS2Go app to your
smart phone and use it to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
Interest on Refunds
If you are due a refund, you may get interest on
it. The interest rates are adjusted quarterly.
If the refund is made within 45 days after the
due date of your return, no interest will be paid.
If you file your return after the due date (including extensions), no interest will be paid if the refund is made within 45 days after the date you
filed. If the refund isn’t made within this 45 -day
period, interest will be paid from the due date of
the return or from the date you filed, whichever
is later.
Accepting a refund doesn’t change your
right to claim an additional refund and interest.
File your claim within the period of time that applies. See Amended Returns and Claims for Refund, later. If you don’t accept a refund, no more
interest will be paid on the overpayment included in the payment amount.
Interest on erroneous refund.  All or part of
any interest you were charged on an erroneous
refund will generally be forgiven. Any interest
charged for the period before demand for repayment was made will be forgiven unless:
1. Y ou, or a person related to you, caused
the erroneous refund in any way; or
2. The refund is more than $50,000.
For example, if you claimed a refund of $100
on your return, but the IRS made an error and
sent you $1,000, you wouldn’t be charged interest for the time you held the $900 difference.
Y ou must, however, repay the $900 when the
IRS asks.
Change of Address
If you have moved, file your return using your
new address.
If you move after you filed your return, you
should give the IRS clear and concise notification of your change of address. The notification
may be written, electronic, or oral. Send written
notification to the Internal Revenue Service
Center serving your old address. Y ou can use
Form 8822, Change of Address. If you are expecting a refund, also notify the post office serving your old address. This will help in forwarding
your check to your new address (unless you
chose direct deposit of your refund). For more
information, see Revenue Procedure 2010 -16,
2010-19 I.R.B. 664, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2010-19_IRB/ar07.html.
Be sure to include your SSN (and the name
and SSN of your spouse if you filed a joint return) in any correspondence with the IRS.
What if I Made
a Mistake?
Errors may delay your refund or result in notices
being sent to you. If you discover an error, you
can file an amended return or claim for refund.
Amended Returns and
Claims for Refund
Y ou should correct your return if, after you have
filed it, you find that:
1. Y ou didn’t report some income,
2. Y ou claimed deductions or credits you
shouldn’t have claimed,
3. Y ou didn’t claim deductions or credits you
could have claimed, or
4. Y ou should have claimed a different filing
status. (Once you file a joint return, you
can’t choose to file separate returns for
that year after the due date of the return.
However, an executor may be able to
make this change for a deceased spouse.)
If you need a copy of your return, see Copies of
tax returns  under Kinds of Records T o Keep ,
earlier, in this chapter.
Form 1040 -X. Use Form 1040 -X to correct a
return you have already filed.
Completing Form 1040 -X. On Form
1040-X, enter your income, deductions, and
credits as you originally reported them on your
return; the changes you are making; and the
corrected amounts. Then, figure the tax on the
corrected amount of taxable income and the
amount you owe or your refund.
If you owe tax, the IRS offers several payment options. See How T o Pay, earlier. The tax
owed won’t be subtracted from any amount you
had credited to your estimated tax.
If you can’t pay the full amount due with your
return, you can ask to make monthly installment
payments. See Installment Agreement, earlier.
If you overpaid tax, you can have all or part
of the overpayment refunded to you, or you can
apply all or part of it to your estimated tax. If you
choose to get a refund, it will be sent separately
from any refund shown on your original return.
Filing Form 1040 -X. When completing
Form 1040 -X, don’t forget to show the year of
your original return and explain all changes you
made. Be sure to attach any forms or schedules
needed to explain your changes.
File a separate form for each tax year involved.
Y ou can file Form 1040 -X electronically to
amend Form 1040 and 1040 -SR for the current
year or the two prior tax periods. For more information, see Instructions for Form 1040-X.
If you must mail your Form 1040 -X, mail it to
the Internal Revenue Service Center serving the
area where you now live (as shown in the Instructions for Form 1040-X). However, if you are
filing Form 1040 -X in response to a notice you
received from the IRS, mail it to the address
shown on the notice.
Time for filing a claim for refund.  Generally,
you must file your claim for a credit or refund
within 3 years after the date you filed your original return or within 2 years after the date you
paid the tax, whichever is later. Returns filed before the due date (without regard to extensions)
are considered filed on the due date (even if the
due date was a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday). These time periods are suspended while
you are financially disabled, discussed later.
If the last day for claiming a credit or refund
is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, you can
file the claim on the next business day.
If you don’t file a claim within this period, you
may not be entitled to a credit or a refund.
Federally declared disaster.  If you were
affected by a federally declared disaster, you
may have additional time to file your amended
return. See Pub. 556 for details.
Protective claim for refund. Generally, a protective claim is a formal claim or amended return for credit or refund normally based on current litigation or expected changes in tax law or
other legislation. Y ou file a protective claim
when your right to a refund is contingent on future events and may not be determinable until
after the statute of limitations expires. A valid
protective claim doesn’t have to list a particular
Page 20 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
18 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 21]
dollar amount or demand an immediate refund.
However, a valid protective claim must:
• Be in writing and signed;
• Include your name, address, SSN or ITIN,
and other contact information;
• Identify and describe the contingencies affecting the claim;
• Clearly alert the IRS to the essential nature
of the claim; and
• Identify the specific year(s) for which a refund is sought.
Mail your protective claim for refund to the address listed in the Instructions for Form 1040 -X
under Where T o File.
Generally, the IRS will delay action on the
protective claim until the contingency is resolved.
Limit on amount of refund.  If you file your
claim within 3 years after the date you filed your
return, the credit or refund can’t be more than
the part of the tax paid within the 3 -year period
(plus any extension of time for filing your return)
immediately before you filed the claim. This
time period is suspended while you are financially disabled, discussed later.
Tax paid. Payments, including estimated tax
payments, made before the due date (without
regard to extensions) of the original return are
considered paid on the due date. For example,
income tax withheld during the year is considered paid on the due date of the return, which is
April 15 for most taxpayers.
Example 1.  Y ou made estimated tax payments of $500 and got an automatic extension
of time to October 15, 2022, to file your 2021 income tax return. When you filed your return on
that date, you paid an additional $200 tax. On
October 15, 2025, you filed an amended return
and claimed a refund of $700. Because you
filed your claim within 3 years after you filed
your original return, you can get a refund of up
to $700, the tax paid within the 3 years plus the
6-month extension period immediately before
you filed the claim.
Example 2. The situation is the same as in
Example 1, except you filed your return on October 30, 2022, 2 weeks after the extension period ended. Y ou paid an additional $200 on that
date. On October 30, 2025, you filed an amended return and claimed a refund of $700. Although you filed your claim within 3 years from
the date you filed your original return, the refund
was limited to $200, the tax paid within the 3
years plus the 6 -month extension period immediately before you filed the claim. The estimated
tax of $500 paid before that period can’t be refunded or credited.
If you file a claim more than 3 years after you
file your return, the credit or refund can’t be
more than the tax you paid within the 2 years
immediately before you file the claim.
Example. Y ou filed your 2021 tax return on
April 15, 2022. Y ou paid taxes of $500. On November 5, 2023, after an examination of your
2021 return, you had to pay an additional tax of
$200. On May 12, 2025, you file a claim for a
refund of $300. However, because you filed
your claim more than 3 years after you filed your
return, your refund will be limited to the $200
you paid during the 2 years immediately before
you filed your claim.
Financially disabled.  The time periods for
claiming a refund are suspended for the period
in which you are financially disabled. For a joint
income tax return, only one spouse has to be financially disabled for the time period to be suspended. Y ou are financially disabled if you are
unable to manage your financial affairs because
of a medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in
death or that has lasted or can be expected to
last for a continuous period of not less than 12
months. However, you aren’t treated as financially disabled during any period your spouse or
any other person is authorized to act on your
behalf in financial matters.
T o claim that you are financially disabled,
you must send in the following written statements with your claim for refund.
1. A statement from your qualified physician
that includes:
a. The name and a description of your
physical or mental impairment;
b. The physician’s medical opinion that
the impairment prevented you from
managing your financial affairs;
c. The physician’s medical opinion that
the impairment was or can be expected to result in death, or that its duration has lasted, or can be expected to
last, at least 12 months;
d. The specific time period (to the best of
the physician’s knowledge); and
e. The following certification signed by
the physician: “I hereby certify that, to
the best of my knowledge and belief,
the above representations are true,
correct, and complete.”
2. A statement made by the person signing
the claim for credit or refund that no person, including your spouse, was authorized to act on your behalf in financial matters during the period of disability (or the
exact dates that a person was authorized
to act for you).
Exceptions for special types of refunds.  If
you file a claim for one of the items in the following list, the dates and limits discussed earlier
may not apply. These items, and where to get
more information, are as follows.
• Bad debt. See Pub. 550.
• Worthless security. See Pub. 550.
• Foreign tax paid or accrued. See Pub. 514.
• Net operating loss carryback. See Form
172 and the Instructions for Form 172.
• Carryback of certain business tax credits.
See Form 3800.
• Claim based on an agreement with the IRS
extending the period for assessment of tax.
Processing claims for refund.  Claims are
usually processed 8–12 weeks after they are
filed. Y our claim may be accepted as filed, disallowed, or subject to examination. If a claim is
examined, the procedures are the same as in
the examination of a tax return.
If your claim is disallowed, you will receive
an explanation of why it was disallowed.
Taking your claim to court. Y ou can sue for a
refund in court, but you must first file a timely
claim with the IRS. If the IRS disallows your
claim or doesn’t act on your claim within 6
months after you file it, you can then take your
claim to court. For information on the burden of
proof in a court proceeding, see Pub. 556.
The IRS provides a direct method to move
your claim to court if:
• Y ou are filing a claim for a credit or refund
based solely on contested income tax or
on estate tax or gift tax issues considered
in your previously examined returns, and
• Y ou want to take your case to court instead
of appealing it within the IRS.
When you file your claim with the IRS, you
get the direct method by requesting in writing
that your claim be immediately rejected. A notice of claim disallowance will be sent to you.
Y ou have 2 years from the date of mailing of
the notice of claim disallowance to file a refund
suit in the U.S. District Court having jurisdiction
or in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.
Interest on refund. If you receive a refund because of your amended return, interest will be
paid on it from the due date of your original return or the date you filed your original return,
whichever is later, to the date you filed the
amended return. However, if the refund isn’t
made within 45 days after you file the amended
return, interest will be paid up to the date the refund is paid.
Reduced refund. Y our refund may be reduced
by an additional tax liability that has been assessed against you.
Also, your refund may be reduced by
amounts you owe for past-due federal tax, state
income tax, state unemployment compensation
debts, child support, spousal support, or certain
other federal nontax debts, such as student
loans. If your spouse owes these debts, see
Offset against debts  under Refunds, earlier, for
the correct refund procedures to follow.
Effect on state tax liability.  If your return is
changed for any reason, it may affect your state
income tax liability. This includes changes
made as a result of an examination of your return by the IRS. Contact your state tax agency
for more information.
Penalties
The law provides penalties for failure to file returns or pay taxes as required.
Civil Penalties
If you don’t file your return and pay your tax by
the due date, you may have to pay a penalty.
Y ou may also have to pay a penalty if you substantially understate your tax, understate a reportable transaction, file an erroneous claim for
refund or credit, file a frivolous tax submission,
or fail to supply your SSN or ITIN. If you provide
Page 21 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 1 Filing Information 19

[PAGE 22]
fraudulent information on your return, you may
have to pay a civil fraud penalty.
Filing late.  If you don’t file your return by the
due date (including extensions), you may have
to pay a failure -to-file penalty. The penalty is
usually 5% for each month or part of a month
that a return is late, but not more than 25%. The
penalty is based on the tax not paid by the due
date (without regard to extensions).
Fraud. If your failure to file is due to fraud,
the penalty is 15% for each month or part of a
month that your return is late, up to a maximum
of 75%.
Return over 60 days late. If you file your return more than 60 days after the due date, or
extended due date, the minimum penalty is the
smaller of $525 or 100% of the unpaid tax.
Exception. Y ou won’t have to pay the penalty if you show that you failed to file on time because of reasonable cause and not because of
willful neglect.
Paying tax late.  Y ou will have to pay a failure-to-pay penalty of 1/2 of 1% (0.50%) of your
unpaid taxes for each month, or part of a month,
after the due date that the tax isn’t paid. This
penalty doesn’t apply during the automatic
6-month extension of time to file period if you
paid at least 90% of your actual tax liability on or
before the due date of your return and pay the
balance when you file the return.
The monthly rate of the failure -to-pay penalty is half the usual rate (0.25% instead of
0.50%) if an installment agreement is in effect
for that month. Y ou must have filed your return
by the due date (including extensions) to qualify
for this reduced penalty.
If a notice of intent to levy is issued, the rate
will increase to 1% at the start of the first month
beginning at least 10 days after the day that the
notice is issued. If a notice and demand for immediate payment is issued, the rate will increase to 1% at the start of the first month beginning after the day that the notice and
demand is issued.
This penalty can’t be more than 25% of your
unpaid tax. Y ou won’t have to pay the penalty if
you can show that you had a good reason for
not paying your tax on time.
Combined penalties.  If both the failure -to-file
penalty and the failure -to-pay penalty (discussed earlier) apply in any month, the 5% (or
15%) failure -to-file penalty is reduced by the
failure-to-pay penalty. However, if you file your
return more than 60 days after the due date or
extended due date, the minimum penalty is the
smaller of $525 or 100% of the unpaid tax.
Accuracy-related penalty.  Y ou may have to
pay an accuracy-related penalty if you underpay
your tax because:
1. Y ou show negligence or disregard of the
rules or regulations,
2. Y ou substantially understate your income
tax,
3. Y ou claim tax benefits for a transaction
that lacks economic substance, or
4. Y ou fail to disclose a foreign financial asset.
The penalty is equal to 20% of the underpayment. The penalty is 40% of any portion of the
underpayment that is attributable to an undisclosed noneconomic substance transaction or
an undisclosed foreign financial asset transaction. The penalty won’t be figured on any part of
an underpayment on which the fraud penalty
(discussed later) is charged.
Negligence or disregard.  The term “negligence” includes a failure to make a reasonable
attempt to comply with the tax law or to exercise
ordinary and reasonable care in preparing a return. Negligence also includes failure to keep
adequate books and records. Y ou won’t have to
pay a negligence penalty if you have a reasonable basis for a position you took.
The term “disregard” includes any careless,
reckless, or intentional disregard.
Adequate disclosure.  Y ou can avoid the
penalty for disregard of rules or regulations if
you adequately disclose on your return a position that has at least a reasonable basis. See
Disclosure statement, later.
This exception won’t apply to an item that is
attributable to a tax shelter. In addition, it won’t
apply if you fail to keep adequate books and records, or substantiate items properly.
Substantial understatement of income
tax. Y ou understate your tax if the tax shown on
your return is less than the correct tax. The understatement is substantial if it is more than the
larger of 10% of the correct tax or $5,000. However, the amount of the understatement may be
reduced to the extent the understatement is due
to:
1. Substantial authority, or
2. Adequate disclosure and a reasonable basis.
If an item on your return is attributable to a tax
shelter, there is no reduction for an adequate
disclosure. However, there is a reduction for a
position with substantial authority, but only if you
reasonably believed that your tax treatment was
more likely than not the proper treatment.
Substantial authority. Whether there is or
was substantial authority for the tax treatment of
an item depends on the facts and circumstances. Some of the items that may be considered
are court opinions, T reasury regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, and notices
and announcements issued by the IRS and
published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin that
involve the same or similar circumstances as
yours.
Disclosure statement.  T o adequately disclose the relevant facts about your tax treatment
of an item, use Form 8275. Y ou must also have
a reasonable basis for treating the item the way
you did.
In cases of substantial understatement only,
items that meet the requirements of Revenue
Procedure 2024-44 (or later update) are considered adequately disclosed on your return without filing Form 8275.
Use Form 8275 -R to disclose items or positions contrary to regulations.
Transaction lacking economic substance.
For more information on economic substance,
see section 7701(o).
Foreign financial asset.  For more information on undisclosed foreign financial assets, see
section 6662(j).
Reasonable cause. Y ou won’t have to pay a
penalty if you show a good reason (reasonable
cause) for the way you treated an item. Y ou
must also show that you acted in good faith.
This doesn’t apply to a transaction that lacks
economic substance.
Filing erroneous claim for refund or credit.
Y ou may have to pay a penalty if you file an erroneous claim for refund or credit. The penalty is
equal to 20% of the disallowed amount of the
claim, unless you can show a reasonable basis
for the way you treated an item. However, any
disallowed amount due to a transaction that
lacks economic substance won’t be treated as
having a reasonable basis. The penalty won’t
be figured on any part of the disallowed amount
of the claim that relates to the earned income
credit or on which the accuracy -related or fraud
penalties are charged.
Frivolous tax submission.  Y ou may have to
pay a penalty of $5,000 if you file a frivolous tax
return or other frivolous submissions. A frivolous
tax return is one that doesn’t include enough information to figure the correct tax or that contains information clearly showing that the tax
you reported is substantially incorrect. For more
information on frivolous returns, frivolous submissions, and a list of positions that are identified as frivolous, see Notice 2010 -33, 2010 -17
I.R.B. 609, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2010-17_IRB/ar13.html.
Y ou will have to pay the penalty if you filed
this kind of return or submission based on a frivolous position or a desire to delay or interfere
with the administration of federal tax laws. This
includes altering or striking out the preprinted
language above the space provided for your
signature.
This penalty is added to any other penalty
provided by law.
Fraud. If there is any underpayment of tax on
your return due to fraud, a penalty of 75% of the
underpayment due to fraud will be added to
your tax.
Joint return. The fraud penalty on a joint return doesn’t apply to a spouse unless some part
of the underpayment is due to the fraud of that
spouse.
Failure to supply SSN.  If you don’t include
your SSN or the SSN of another person where
required on a return, statement, or other document, you will be subject to a penalty of $50 for
each failure. Y ou will also be subject to a penalty of $50 if you don’t give your SSN to another
person when it is required on a return, statement, or other document.
For example, if you have a bank account that
earns interest, you must give your SSN to the
bank. The number must be shown on the Form
1099-INT or other statement the bank sends
you. If you don’t give the bank your SSN, you
will be subject to the $50 penalty. (Y ou may also
be subject to “backup” withholding of income
tax. See chapter 4.)
Y ou won’t have to pay the penalty if you are
able to show that the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.
Page 22 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
20 Chapter 1 Filing Information Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 23]
Criminal Penalties
Y ou may be subject to criminal prosecution
(brought to trial) for actions such as:
1. T ax evasion;
2. Willful failure to file a return, supply information, or pay any tax due;
3. Fraud and false statements;
4. Preparing and filing a fraudulent return; or
5. Identity theft.
Identity Theft
Identity theft occurs when someone uses your
personal information such as your name, SSN,
or other identifying information, without your
permission, to commit fraud or other crimes. An
identity thief may use your SSN to get a job or
may file a tax return using your SSN to receive a
refund.
T o reduce your risk:
• Protect your SSN,
• Ensure your employer is protecting your
SSN, and
• Be careful when choosing a tax preparer.
If your tax records are affected by identity
theft and you receive a notice from the IRS, respond right away to the name and phone number printed on the IRS notice or letter.
If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you
suspect you are a victim of tax -related identity
theft, visit IRS.gov/IdentityTheft to learn what
steps you should take.
For more information, see Pub. 5027.
All taxpayers are now eligible for an
Identity Protection Personal Identification Number (IP PIN). For more information, see Pub. 5477. T o apply for an IP PIN,
go to IRS.gov/IPPIN and use the Get an IP PIN
tool.
Victims of identity theft who are experiencing economic harm or a systemic problem, or
are seeking help in resolving tax problems that
have not been resolved through normal channels, may be eligible for T axpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) assistance. Y ou can reach TAS
by calling the National T axpayer Advocate helpline at 877 -777-4778 or 800 -829-4059 (TTY/
TDD). Deaf or hard -of-hearing individuals can
also contact the IRS through the T elecommunications Relay Services (TRS) at FCC.gov/TRS.
Protect yourself from suspicious emails
or phishing schemes. Phishing is the creation
and use of email and websites designed to
mimic legitimate business emails and websites.
The most common form is the act of sending an
email to a user falsely claiming to be an established legitimate enterprise in an attempt to
scam the user into surrendering private information that will be used for identity theft.
The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers via emails. Also, the IRS doesn’t request detailed personal information through email or ask
taxpayers for the PIN numbers, passwords, or
similar secret access information for their credit
card, bank, or other financial accounts.
If you receive an unsolicited email claiming
to be from the IRS, forward the message to
TIP
phishing@irs.gov. Y ou may also report misuse
of the IRS name, logo, forms, or other IRS property to the T reasury Inspector General for T ax
Administration toll free at 800 -366-4484. Y ou
can forward suspicious emails to the Federal
T rade Commission (FTC) at spam@uce.gov or
report them at ftc.gov/complaint. Y ou can contact them at ftc.gov/idtheft or 877 -IDTHEFT
(877-438-4338). If you have been a victim of
identity theft, see IdentityTheft.gov or Pub.
5027. People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or
have a speech disability and who have access
to TTY/TDD equipment can call 866-653-4261.
Go to IRS.gov/IDProtection to learn more
about identity theft and how to reduce your risk.
2.
Filing Status
Introduction
This chapter helps you determine which filing
status to use. There are five filing statuses.
• Single.
• Married filing jointly.
• Married filing separately.
• Head of household.
• Qualifying surviving spouse.
If more than one filing status applies to
you, choose the one that will give you
the lowest tax.
Y ou must determine your filing status before
you can determine whether you must file a tax
return ( chapter 1 ), your standard deduction
(chapter 10 ), and your tax ( chapter 11 ). Y ou
also use your filing status to determine whether
you are eligible to claim certain deductions and
credits.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
3 Armed Forces’ T ax Guide
501 Dependents, Standard Deduction,
and Filing Information
503 Child and Dependent Care Expenses
519 U.S. T ax Guide for Aliens
555 Community Property
559 Survivors, Executors, and
Administrators
596 Earned Income Credit (EIC)
925 Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules
971 Innocent Spouse Relief
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
TIP
  3
  501
  503
  519
  555
  559
  596
  925
  971
Marital Status
In general, your filing status depends on
whether you are considered unmarried or married.
Unmarried persons.  Y ou are considered unmarried for the whole year if, on the last day of
your tax year, you are either:
• Unmarried, or
• Legally separated from your spouse under
a divorce or separate maintenance decree.
State law governs whether you are married
or legally separated under a divorce or separate
maintenance decree.
Definition of marriage. A marriage of two individuals is recognized for federal tax purposes if
the marriage is recognized by the state or territory of the United States in which the marriage
is entered into, regardless of legal residence.
T wo individuals who enter into a relationship
that is denominated as marriage under the laws
of a foreign jurisdiction or an American Indian
tribe are recognized as married for federal tax
purposes if the relationship would be recognized as marriage under the laws of at least one
state or territory of the United States, regardless
of legal residence. Individuals who have entered into a registered domestic partnership,
civil union, or other similar relationship that isn’t
denominated as a marriage under the law of the
state or territory of the United States where
such relationship was entered into aren’t lawfully married for federal tax purposes, regardless of legal residence. See Considered married, next.
Divorced persons.  If you are divorced under a final decree by the last day of the year,
you are considered unmarried for the whole
year.
Divorce and remarriage. If you obtain a divorce for the sole purpose of filing tax returns as
unmarried individuals, and at the time of divorce
you intend to and do, in fact, remarry each other
in the next tax year, you and your spouse must
file as married individuals in both years.
Annulled marriages.  If you obtain a court
decree of annulment, which holds that no valid
marriage ever existed, you are considered unmarried even if you filed joint returns for earlier
years. File Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income T ax Return, claiming single or head
of household status for all tax years that are affected by the annulment and not closed by the
statute of limitations for filing a tax return. Generally, for a credit or refund, you must file Form
1040-X within 3 years (including extensions) after the date you filed your original return or
within 2 years after the date you paid the tax,
whichever is later. If you filed your original return
early (for example, March 1), your return is considered filed on the due date (generally April
15). However, if you had an extension to file (for
example, until October 15) but you filed earlier
and we received it on July 1, your return is considered filed on July 1.
Head of household or qualifying surviving spouse.  If you are considered unmarried,
you may be able to file as head of household or
as qualifying surviving spouse. See Head of
Page 23 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 2 Filing Status 21

[PAGE 24]
Household and Qualifying Surviving Spouse ,
later, to see if you qualify.
Married persons.  If you are considered married, you and your spouse can file a joint return
or separate returns.
Considered married.  Y ou are considered
married for the whole year if, on the last day of
your tax year, you and your spouse meet any
one of the following tests.
1. Y ou are married and living together.
2. Y ou are living together in a common law
marriage recognized in the state where
you now live or in the state where the common law marriage began.
3. Y ou are married and living apart, but not
legally separated under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance.
4. Y ou are separated under an interlocutory
(not final) decree of divorce.
Spouse died during the year.  If your
spouse died during the year, you are considered married for the whole year for filing status
purposes.
If you didn't remarry before the end of the
tax year, you can file a joint return for yourself
and your deceased spouse. For the next 2
years, you may be entitled to the special benefits described later under Qualifying Surviving
Spouse.
If you remarried before the end of the tax
year, you can file a joint return with your new
spouse. Y our deceased spouse's filing status is
married filing separately for that year.
Married persons living apart.  If you live
apart from your spouse and meet certain tests,
you may be able to file as head of household
even if you aren't divorced or legally separated.
If you qualify to file as head of household instead of married filing separately, your standard
deduction will be higher. Also, your tax may be
lower, and you may be able to claim the earned
income credit (EIC). See Head of Household ,
later.
Single
Y our filing status is single if you are considered
unmarried and you don’t qualify for another filing status. T o determine your marital status, see
Marital Status, earlier.
Spouse died before January 1, 2025.  Y our
filing status may be single if your spouse died
before January 1, 2025, and you didn't remarry
before the end of 2025. Y ou may, however, be
able to use another filing status that will give
you a lower tax. See Head of Household  and
Qualifying Surviving Spouse , later, to see if you
qualify.
How to file.  On Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, show
your filing status as single by checking the “Single” box on the Filing Status line near the top of
the form. Use the Single column of the T ax T able, or Section A of the T ax Computation Worksheet, to figure your tax.
Married Filing Jointly
Y ou can choose married filing jointly as your filing status if you are considered married and
both you and your spouse agree to file a joint return. On a joint return, you and your spouse report your combined income and deduct your
combined allowable expenses. Y ou can file a
joint return even if one of you had no income or
deductions.
If you and your spouse decide to file a joint
return, your tax may be lower than your combined tax for the other filing statuses. Also, your
standard deduction (if you don’t itemize deductions) may be higher, and you may qualify for
tax benefits that don’t apply to other filing statuses.
How to file.  On Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, show
your filing status as married filing jointly by
checking the “Married filing jointly” box on the
Filing Status line near the top of the form. Use
the Married filing jointly column of the T ax T able,
or Section B of the T ax Computation Worksheet, to figure your tax.
If you and your spouse each have income, you may want to figure your tax
both on a joint return and on separate
returns (using the filing status of married filing
separately). Y ou can choose the method that
gives the two of you the lower combined tax unless you are required to file separately.
Spouse died.  If your spouse died during the
year, you are considered married for the whole
year and can choose married filing jointly as
your filing status. See Spouse died during the
year under Married persons, earlier, for more information.
If your spouse died in 2026 before filing a
2025 return, you can choose married filing
jointly as your filing status on your 2025 return.
Divorced persons. If you are divorced under a
final decree by the last day of the year, you are
considered unmarried for the whole year and
you can’t choose married filing jointly as your filing status.
Filing a Joint Return
Both you and your spouse must include all of
your income and deductions on your joint return.
Accounting period. Both of you must use the
same accounting period, but you can use different accounting methods. See Accounting Periods and Accounting Methods in chapter 1.
Joint responsibility. Both of you may be held
responsible, jointly and individually, for the tax
and any interest or penalty due on your joint return. This means that if one spouse doesn't pay
the tax due, the other may have to. Or, if one
spouse doesn't report the correct tax, both
spouses may be responsible for any additional
taxes assessed by the IRS. One spouse may be
held responsible for all the tax due even if all the
income was earned by the other spouse.
Y ou may want to file separately if:
• Y ou believe your spouse isn't reporting all
of their income, or
TIP
• Y ou don’t want to be responsible for any
taxes due if your spouse doesn't have
enough tax withheld or doesn't pay enough
estimated tax.
Divorced taxpayer. Y ou may be held jointly
and individually responsible for any tax, interest,
and penalties due on a joint return filed before
your divorce. This responsibility may apply even
if your divorce decree states that your former
spouse will be responsible for any amounts due
on previously filed joint returns.
Relief from joint responsibility.  In some
cases, one spouse may be relieved of joint responsibility for tax, interest, and penalties on a
joint return for items of the other spouse that
were incorrectly reported on the joint return. Y ou
can ask for relief no matter how small the liability.
There are three types of relief available.
1. Innocent spouse relief.
2. Separation of liability (available only to
joint filers whose spouse has died, or who
are divorced, legally separated, or haven't
lived together for the 12 months ending on
the date the election for this relief is filed).
3. Equitable relief.
Y ou must file Form 8857, Request for Innocent Spouse Relief, to request relief from joint
responsibility. Pub. 971 explains these kinds of
relief and who may qualify for them.
Signing a joint return.  For a return to be considered a joint return, both spouses must generally sign the return.
Spouse died before signing.  If your
spouse died before signing the return, the executor or administrator must sign the return for
your spouse. If neither you nor anyone else has
yet been appointed as executor or administrator, you can sign the return for your spouse and
enter “Filing as surviving spouse” in the area
where you sign the return.
Spouse away from home. If your spouse is
away from home, you should prepare the return,
sign it, and send it to your spouse to sign so that
it can be filed on time.
Injury or disease prevents signing. If your
spouse can’t sign because of disease or injury
and tells you to sign for them, you can sign your
spouse’s name in the proper space on the return followed by the words “By (your name),
Spouse.” Be sure to sign in the space provided
for your signature. Attach a dated statement,
signed by you, to the return. The statement
should include the form number of the return
you are filing, the tax year, and the reason your
spouse can’t sign; it should also state that your
spouse has agreed to your signing for them.
Signing as guardian of spouse.  If you are
the guardian of your spouse who is mentally incompetent, you can sign the return for your
spouse as guardian.
Spouse in combat zone.  Y ou can sign a
joint return for your spouse if your spouse can’t
sign because they are serving in a combat zone
(such as the Persian Gulf Area, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, or Afghanistan), even if you
don’t have a power of attorney or other statement. Attach a signed statement to your return
Page 24 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
22 Chapter 2 Filing Status Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 25]
explaining that your spouse is serving in a combat zone. For more information on special tax
rules for persons who are serving in a combat
zone, or who are in missing status as a result of
serving in a combat zone, see Pub. 3.
Power of attorney. In order for you to sign a
return for your spouse in any of these cases,
you must attach to the return a power of attorney (POA) that authorizes you to sign for your
spouse. Y ou can use a POA that states that you
have been granted authority to sign the return,
or you can use Form 2848, Power of Attorney
and Declaration of Representative. Part I of
Form 2848 must state that you are granted authority to sign the return.
Nonresident alien or dual-status alien. Generally, a married couple can’t file a joint return if
either one is a nonresident alien at any time during the tax year. However, if one spouse was a
nonresident alien or dual -status alien who was
married to a U.S. citizen or resident alien at the
end of the year, the spouses can choose to file
a joint return. If you do file a joint return, you and
your spouse are both treated as U.S. residents
for the entire tax year. See chapter 1 of Pub.
519.
Married Filing
Separately
Y ou can choose married filing separately as
your filing status if you are married. This filing
status may benefit you if you want to be responsible only for your own tax or if it results in less
tax than filing a joint return.
If you and your spouse don’t agree to file a
joint return, you must use this filing status unless you qualify for head of household status,
discussed later.
Y ou may be able to choose head of household filing status if you are considered unmarried because you live apart from your spouse
and meet certain tests (explained under Head
of Household, later). This can apply to you even
if you aren't divorced or legally separated. If you
qualify to file as head of household, instead of
as married filing separately, your tax may be
lower, you may be able to claim the EIC and
certain other benefits, and your standard deduction will be higher. The head of household
filing status allows you to choose the standard
deduction even if your spouse chooses to itemize deductions. See Head of Household , later,
for more information.
Y ou will generally pay more combined
tax on separate returns than you would
on a joint return for the reasons listed
under Special Rules, later. However, unless you
are required to file separately, you should figure
your tax both ways (on a joint return and on separate returns). This way, you can make sure you
are using the filing status that results in the lowest combined tax. When figuring the combined
tax of a married couple, you may want to consider state taxes as well as federal taxes.
How to file.  If you file a separate return, you
generally report only your own income, credits,
and deductions.
TIP
Select this filing status by checking the
“Married filing separately” box on the Filing Status line near the top of Form 1040 or 1040 -SR.
Enter your spouse's full name in the entry space
below the filing status checkbox. Be sure to enter your spouse’s SSN or ITIN in the space for
spouse’s SSN. If your spouse doesn't have and
isn't required to have an SSN or ITIN, enter
“NRA” in the space for your spouse's SSN. Use
the Married filing separately  column of the T ax
T able, or Section C of the T ax Computation
Worksheet, to figure your tax.
Special Rules
If you choose married filing separately as your
filing status, the following special rules apply.
Because of these special rules, you usually pay
more tax on a separate return than if you use
another filing status you qualify for.
1. Y our tax rate is generally higher than on a
joint return.
2. Y our exemption amount for figuring the alternative minimum tax is half that allowed
on a joint return.
3. Y ou can’t take the credit for child and dependent care expenses in most cases,
and the amount you can exclude from income under an employer's dependent
care assistance program is limited to
$2,500 (instead of $5,000 on a joint return). However, if you are legally separated
or living apart from your spouse, you may
be able to file a separate return and still
take the credit. For more information about
these expenses, the credit, and the exclusion, see What’s Y our Filing Status? in
Pub. 503.
4. Y ou can’t take the EIC, unless you have a
qualifying child and meet certain other requirements. See Pub. 596.
5. Y ou can’t take the exclusion or credit for
adoption expenses in most cases.
6. Y ou can’t take the education credits (the
American opportunity credit and lifetime
learning credit), or the deduction for student loan interest.
7. Y ou can’t exclude any interest income from
qualified U.S. savings bonds you used for
higher education expenses.
8. If you lived with your spouse at any time
during the tax year:
a. Y ou can’t claim the credit for the elderly or the disabled, and
b. Y ou must include in income a greater
percentage (up to 85%) of any social
security or equivalent railroad retirement benefits you received.
9. The following credits and deductions are
reduced at income levels half of those for
a joint return.
a. The child tax credit and the credit for
other dependents.
b. The retirement savings contributions
credit.
10. Y our capital loss deduction limit is $1,500
(instead of $3,000 on a joint return).
11. If your spouse itemizes deductions, you
can’t claim the standard deduction. If you
can claim the standard deduction, your basic standard deduction is half of the
amount allowed on a joint return.
Adjusted gross income (AGI) limits.  If your
AGI on a separate return is lower than it would
have been on a joint return, you may be able to
deduct a larger amount for certain deductions
that are limited by AGI, such as medical expenses.
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs).
Y ou may not be able to deduct all or part of your
contributions to a traditional IRA if you or your
spouse was covered by an employee retirement
plan at work during the year. Y our deduction is
reduced or eliminated if your income is more
than a certain amount. This amount is much
lower for married individuals who file separately
and lived together at any time during the year.
For more information, see How Much Can Y ou
Deduct in chapter 9.
Rental activity losses.  If you actively participated in a passive rental real estate activity that
produced a loss, you can generally deduct the
loss from your nonpassive income, up to
$25,000. This is called a special allowance.
However, married persons filing separate returns who lived together at any time during the
year can’t claim this special allowance. Married
persons filing separate returns who lived apart
at all times during the year are each allowed a
$12,500 maximum special allowance for losses
from passive real estate activities. See Rental
Activities in Pub. 925 for more information.
Community property states.  If you live in a
community property state and file separately,
your income may be considered separate income or community income for income tax purposes. Community property states include Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New
Mexico, T exas, Washington, and Wisconsin.
See Pub. 555 for more information.
Joint Return After
Separate Returns
Y ou can change your filing status from a separate return to a joint return by filing an amended
return using Form 1040-X.
Y ou can generally change to a joint return
any time within 3 years from the due date of the
separate return or returns. This doesn't include
any extensions. A separate return includes a return filed by you or your spouse claiming married filing separately, single, or head of household filing status.
Separate Returns After
Joint Return
Once you file a joint return, you can’t choose to
file separate returns for that year after the due
date of the return.
Exception. A personal representative for a decedent can change from a joint return elected
by the surviving spouse to a separate return for
the decedent. The personal representative has
1 year from the due date (including extensions)
of the return to make the change. See Pub. 559
Page 25 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 2 Filing Status 23

[PAGE 26]
for more information on filing a return for a decedent.
Head of Household
Y ou may be able to file as head of household if
you meet all of the following requirements.
1. Y ou are unmarried or considered unmarried on the last day of the year. See Marital
Status, earlier, and Considered Unmarried, later.
2. Y ou paid more than half of the cost of
keeping up a home for the year.
3. A qualifying person lived with you in the
home for more than half the year (except
for temporary absences, such as school).
However, if the qualifying person is your
dependent parent, your dependent parent
doesn't have to live with you. See Special
rule for parent, later, under Qualifying Person.
If you qualify to file as head of household, your tax rate will usually be lower
than the rates for single or married filing separately. Y ou will also receive a higher
standard deduction than if you file as single or
married filing separately.
How to file.  Indicate your choice of this filing
status by checking the “Head of household” box
on the Filing Status  line near the top of Form
1040 or 1040 -SR. If the child who qualifies you
for this filing status isn't claimed as your dependent in the Dependents section of Form
1040 or 1040 -SR, enter the child's name in the
entry space below the filing status checkboxes.
Use the Head of a household column of the T ax
T able, or Section D of the T ax Computation
Worksheet, to figure your tax.
Considered Unmarried
T o qualify for head of household status, you
must be either unmarried or considered
unmarried on the last day of the year. Y ou are
TIP
considered unmarried on the last day of the tax
year if you meet all of the following tests.
1. Y ou file a separate return. A separate return includes a return claiming married filing separately, single, or head of household filing status.
2. Y ou paid more than half of the cost of
keeping up your home for the tax year.
3. Y our spouse didn't live in your home during
the last 6 months of the tax year. Y our
spouse is considered to live in your home
even if your spouse is temporarily absent
due to special circumstances. See T emporary absences under Qualifying Person,
later.
4. Y our home was the main home of your
child, stepchild, or foster child for more
than half the year. (See Home of qualifying
person under Qualifying Person, later, for
rules applying to a child's birth, death, or
temporary absence during the year.)
5. Y ou must be able to claim the child as a
dependent. However, you meet this test if
you can’t claim the child as a dependent
only because the noncustodial parent can
claim the child using the rules described in
Children of divorced or separated parents
(or parents who live apart) under Qualifying Child in chapter 3, or referred to in
Support T est for Children of Divorced or
Separated Parents (or Parents Who Live
Apart) under Qualifying Relative in chapter 3. The general rules for claiming a child
as a dependent are explained in chapter 3.
Y ou may be considered unmarried for the
purpose of using head of household status but
not for other purposes, such as claiming the
EIC. Different tests apply depending on the tax
benefit you claim.
If you were considered married for part
of the year and lived in a community
property state (listed earlier under Married Filing Separately ), special rules may apply
in determining your income and expenses. See
Pub. 555 for more information.
Nonresident alien spouse.  Y ou are considered unmarried for head of household purposes
if your spouse was a nonresident alien at any
time during the year and you don’t choose to
treat your nonresident spouse as a resident
alien. However, your spouse isn't a qualifying
person for head of household purposes. Y ou
must have another qualifying person and meet
the other tests to be eligible to file as head of
household.
Choice to treat spouse as resident.  Y ou
are considered married if you choose to treat
your spouse as a resident alien. See chapter 1
of Pub. 519.
Keeping Up a Home
T o qualify for head of household status, you
must pay more than half of the cost of keeping
up a home for the year. Y ou can determine
whether you paid more than half of the cost of
keeping up a home by using Worksheet 2-1.
Costs you include.  Include in the cost of
keeping up a home expenses, such as rent,
mortgage interest, real estate taxes, insurance
on the home, repairs, utilities, and food eaten in
the home.
Costs you don’t include.  Don’t include the
costs of clothing, education, medical treatment,
vacations, life insurance, or transportation. Also
don’t include the value of your services or those
of a member of your household.
Qualifying Person
See T able 2-1 to see who is a qualifying person.
Any person not described in T able 2-1 isn't a
qualifying person.
Example 1 —Child. Y our unmarried child
lived with you all year and was 18 years old at
the end of the year. Y our child didn't provide
more than half of their own support and doesn't
meet the tests to be a qualifying child of anyone
else. As a result, this child is your qualifying
child (see Qualifying Child  in chapter 3) and,
because this child is single, this is your qualifying person for head of household purposes.
Example 2 —Child who isn't qualifying
person. The facts are the same as in Example 1, except your child was 25 years old at the
end of the year and your child’s gross income
was $6,000. Because your child doesn't meet
the age test (explained under Qualifying Child in
chapter 3), your child isn't your qualifying child.
Because the child doesn't meet the gross income test (explained under Qualifying Relative
in chapter 3), the child isn't your qualifying relative. As a result, this child isn't your qualifying
person for head of household purposes.
Example 3 —Friend. Y our friend lived with
you all year. Even though your friend may be
your qualifying relative if the gross income and
CAUTION
!
Worksheet 2-1. Cost of Keeping
Up a Home Keep for Y our Records
Amount
You Paid Total Cost
Property taxes $ $
Mortgage interest expense
Rent
Utility charges
Repairs/Maintenance
Property insurance
Food eaten in the home
Other household expenses
Totals $ $
Minus total amount you paid ( )
Amount others paid $
If the total amount you paid is more than the amount others paid, you meet the
requirement of paying more than half of the cost of keeping up the home.
Page 26 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
24 Chapter 2 Filing Status Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 27]
support tests (explained in chapter 3) are met,
your friend isn't your qualifying person for head
of household purposes because your friend isn't
related to you in one of the ways listed under
Relatives who don’t have to live with you  in
chapter 3. See T able 2-1.
Example 4—Friend's child. The facts are
the same as in Example 3, except your friend's
10-year-old child also lived with you all year.
Y our friend’s child isn't your qualifying child and,
because the child is your friend's qualifying
child, your friend’s child isn't your qualifying relative (see Not a Qualifying Child T est  in chapter 3). As a result, your friend’s child isn't your
qualifying person for head of household purposes.
Home of qualifying person.  Generally, the
qualifying person must live with you for more
than half the year.
Special rule for parent.  If your qualifying
person is your parent, you may be eligible to file
as head of household even if your parent
doesn't live with you. However, you must be
able to claim your parent as a dependent. Also,
you must pay more than half of the cost of keeping up a home that was the main home for the
entire year for your parent.
If you pay more than half of the cost of keeping your parent in a rest home or home for the
elderly, that counts as paying more than half of
the cost of keeping up your parent's main home.
Death or birth. Y ou may be eligible to file as
head of household even if the individual who
qualifies you for this filing status is born or dies
during the year. If the individual is your qualifying child, the child must have lived with you for
more than half the part of the year the child was
alive. If the individual is anyone else, see Pub.
501 for more information.
Temporary absences. Y ou and your qualifying person are considered to live together
even if one or both of you are temporarily absent from your home due to special
circumstances, such as illness, education, business, vacation, military service, or detention in a
juvenile facility. It must be reasonable to assume the absent person will return to the home
after the temporary absence. Y ou must continue
to keep up the home during the absence.
Adopted child or foster child.  Y ou may be
eligible to file as head of household if the person who qualifies you for this filing status was
an adopted child or foster child. For more information, see Pub. 501.
Kidnapped child. Y ou may be eligible to file
as head of household even if the child who is
your qualifying person has been kidnapped. For
more information, see Pub. 501.
Qualifying Surviving
Spouse
If your spouse died in 2025, you can use married filing jointly as your filing status for 2025 if
Who Is a Qualifying Person Qualifying You To File as Head of Household?1
Caution. See the text of this chapter for the other requirements you must meet to claim head of household
filing status.
IF the person is your . . . AND . . . THEN that person is . . .
qualifying child (such as a son,
daughter, or grandchild who lived with
you more than half the year and meets
certain other tests)2
the child is single a qualifying person, whether or
not the child meets the Citizen or
Resident T est in chapter 3.
the child is married and you can claim the
child as a dependent
a qualifying person.
the child is married and you can’t claim the
child as a dependent
not a qualifying person.3
qualifying relative4 who is your father or
mother
you can claim your parent as a dependent5 a qualifying person.6
you can’t claim your parent as a dependent not a qualifying person.
qualifying relative4 other than your father
or mother (such as a grandparent,
brother, or sister who meets certain
tests)
your relative lived with you more than half
the year, and your relative is related to you in
one of the ways listed under Relatives who
don’t have to live with you in chapter 3 and
you can claim your relative as a dependent5
a qualifying person.
your relative didn't live with you more than
half the year
not a qualifying person.
your relative isn't related to you in one of the
ways listed under Relatives who don’t have
to live with you in chapter 3 and is your
qualifying relative only because your relative
lived with you all year as a member of your
household
not a qualifying person.
you can’t claim your relative as a dependent not a qualifying person.
1 A person can’t qualify more than one taxpayer to use the head of household filing status for the year.
2 The term “qualifying child” is defined in chapter 3. Note: If you are a noncustodial parent, the term “qualifying child” for head of household filing status doesn't include a child who is your
qualifying child only because of the rules described under Children of divorced or separated parents (or parents who live apart) under Qualifying Child in chapter 3. If you are the
custodial parent and those rules apply, the child is generally your qualifying child for head of household filing status even though the child isn't a qualifying child you can claim as a
dependent.
3 This person is a qualifying person if the only reason you can’t claim the person as a dependent is that you, or your spouse if filing jointly, can be claimed as a dependent on another
taxpayer’s return.
4 The term “qualifying relative” is defined in chapter 3.
5 If you can claim a person as a dependent only because of a multiple support agreement, that person isn't a qualifying person. See Multiple Support Agreement in chapter 3.
6 See Special rule for parent under Qualifying Person, earlier.
T able 2-1.
Page 27 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 2 Filing Status 25

[PAGE 28]
you otherwise qualify to use that status. The
year of death is the last year for which you can
file jointly with your deceased spouse. See Married Filing Jointly, earlier.
Y ou may be eligible to use qualifying surviving spouse as your filing status for 2 years following the year your spouse died. For example,
if your spouse died in 2024, and you haven't remarried, you may be able to use this filing status
for 2025 and 2026.
This filing status entitles you to use joint return tax rates and the highest standard deduction amount (if you don’t itemize deductions). It
doesn't entitle you to file a joint return.
How to file.  Indicate your choice of this filing
status by checking the “Qualifying surviving
spouse” box on the Filing Status  line near the
top of Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. If the child who
qualifies you for this filing status isn’t claimed as
your dependent in the Dependents section of
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, enter the child’s name
in the entry space below the filing staus checkboxes. Use the Married filing jointly  column of
the T ax T able, or Section B of the T ax Computation Worksheet, to figure your tax.
Eligibility rules.  Y ou are eligible to file your
2025 return as a qualifying surviving spouse if
you meet all of the following tests.
• Y ou were entitled to file a joint return with
your spouse for the year your spouse died.
It doesn't matter whether you actually filed
a joint return.
• Y our spouse died in 2023 or 2024 and you
didn't remarry before the end of 2025.
• Y ou have a child or stepchild (not a foster
child) whom you can claim as a dependent
or could claim as a dependent except that,
for 2025:
 a. The child had gross income of
$5,200 or more,
 b. The child filed a joint return, or
 c. Y ou could be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s return.
If the child isn't claimed as your dependent in the Dependents section on
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, enter the child's
name in the entry space below the filing
status checkboxes. If you don’t enter the
name, it will take us longer to process your
return.
• This child lived in your home all year, except for temporary absences. See T emporary absences, earlier, under Head of
Household. There are also exceptions, described later, for a child who was born or
died during the year and for a kidnapped
child.
• Y ou paid more than half of the cost of
keeping up a home for the year. See Keeping Up a Home, earlier, under Head of
Household.
Example. Y our spouse died in 2023 and
you haven’t remarried. During 2024 and 2025
you continued to keep up a home for you and
your child who lives with you and whom you can
claim as a dependent. For 2023, you were entitled to file a joint return for you and your
deceased spouse. For 2024 and 2025, you can
file as qualifying surviving spouse. After 2025,
you can file as head of household if you qualify.
Death or birth. Y ou may be eligible to file as a
qualifying surviving spouse if the child who
qualifies you for this filing status is born or dies
during the year. Y ou must have provided more
than half of the cost of keeping up a home that
was the child's main home during the entire part
of the year the child was alive.
Adopted child. Y ou may be eligible to file as a
qualifying surviving spouse if the child who
qualifies you for this filing status was adopted in
2025 or was lawfully placed with you for legal
adoption by you in 2025. The child is considered to have lived with you for all of 2025 if your
main home was this child’s main home for the
entire time since this child was adopted or
placed with you in 2025.
Kidnapped child. Y ou may be eligible to file as
a qualifying surviving spouse even if the child
who qualifies you for this filing status has been
kidnapped. See Pub. 501 for more information.
As mentioned earlier, the filing status
qualifying surviving spouse is available
for only 2 years following the year your
spouse died.
3.
Dependents
Introduction
This chapter discusses the following topics.
• Dependents—Y ou can generally claim
your qualifying child or qualifying relative
as a dependent.
• Social security number (SSN) requirement
for dependents—Y ou must list the SSN of
any person you claim as a dependent.
How to claim dependents. On page 1 of your
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, enter the names of your
dependents in the Dependents section.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
501 Dependents, Standard Deduction,
and Filing Information
503 Child and Dependent Care Expenses
526 Charitable Contributions
Form (and Instructions)
2120 Multiple Support Declaration
8332 Release/Revocation of Release of
Claim to Exemption for Child by
Custodial Parent
CAUTION
!
  501
  503
  526
  2120
  8332
Dependents
The term “dependent” means:
• A qualifying child, or
• A qualifying relative.
The terms “ qualifying child ” and “ qualifying
relative” are defined later.
All the requirements for claiming a dependent are summarized in T able 3-1.
Housekeepers, maids, or servants.  If these
people work for you, you can’t claim them as
dependents.
Child tax credit. Y ou may be entitled to a child
tax credit for each qualifying child who was under age 17 at the end of the year if you claimed
that child as a dependent. For more information,
see chapter 14.
Credit for other dependents. Y ou may be entitled to a credit for other dependents for each
qualifying child who does not qualify you for the
child tax credit and for each qualifying relative.
For more information, see chapter 14.
Exceptions
Even if you have a qualifying child or qualifying
relative, you can claim that person as a dependent only if these three tests are met.
1. Dependent taxpayer test.
2. Joint return test.
3. Citizen or resident test.
These three tests are explained in detail
here.
Dependent Taxpayer Test
If you can be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer, you can’t claim anyone else as a
dependent. Even if you have a qualifying child
or qualifying relative, you can’t claim that person
as a dependent.
If you are filing a joint return and your
spouse can be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer, you and your spouse can’t claim
any dependents on your joint return.
Exception. If you can be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer, you can claim someone else as a dependent if the person who can
claim you (or your spouse if filing a joint return)
as a dependent files a return only to claim a refund of income tax withheld or estimated tax
paid.
Joint Return Test
Y ou generally can’t claim a married person as a
dependent if that person files a joint return.
Exception. Y ou can claim a person as a dependent who files a joint return if that person
and that person’s spouse file the joint return
only to claim a refund of income tax withheld or
estimated tax paid.
Example 1 —Child files joint return.  Y ou
supported your 18 -year-old child who lived with
you all year while your child’s spouse was in the
Armed Forces. Y our child’s spouse earned
Page 28 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
26 Chapter 3 Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 29]
$35,000 for the year. The couple files a joint return. Y ou can’t claim your child as a dependent.
Example 2 —Child files joint return only
as claim for refund of withheld tax.  Y our
18-year-old child and your child’s 17 -year-old
spouse had $800 of wages from part -time jobs
and no other income. They lived with you all
year. Neither is required to file a tax return. They
don’t have a child. T axes were taken out of their
pay, so they filed a joint return only to get a refund of the withheld taxes. The exception to the
joint return test applies, so you aren't
disqualified from claiming each of them as a dependent just because they file a joint return. Y ou
can claim each of them as a dependent if all the
other tests to do so are met.
Example 3 —Child files joint return to
claim American opportunity credit.  The
facts are the same as in Example 2, except no
taxes were taken out of your child’s pay or your
child’s spouse’s pay. However, they file a joint
return to claim an American opportunity credit
of $124 and get a refund of that amount. Because they filed a joint return claiming the
American opportunity credit, they aren't filing it
only to get a refund of income tax withheld or
estimated tax paid. The exception to the joint return test doesn't apply, so you can’t claim either
of them as a dependent.
Citizen or Resident Test
Y ou generally can’t claim a person as a dependent unless that person is a U.S. citizen, U.S. resident alien, U.S. national, or a resident of Canada or Mexico. However, there is an exception
for certain adopted children, as explained next.
Overview of the Rules for Claiming a Dependent
Caution. This table is only an overview of the rules. For details, see the rest of this chapter.
• Y ou can’t claim any dependents if you (or your spouse if filing jointly) could be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer,
unless that taxpayer files a return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid.
• Y ou can’t claim a married person who files a joint return as a dependent unless that joint return is filed only to claim a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax paid.
• Y ou can’t claim a person as a dependent unless that person is a U.S. citizen, U.S. resident alien, U.S. national, or a resident of
Canada or Mexico.1
• Y ou can’t claim a person as a dependent unless that person is your qualifying child or qualifying relative.
Tests To Be a Qualifying Child Tests To Be a Qualifying Relative
1. The child must be your son, daughter, stepchild, foster child,
brother, sister, half brother, half sister, stepbrother, stepsister,
or a descendant of any of them.
2. The child must be (a) under age 19 at the end of the year and
younger than you (or your spouse if filing jointly); (b) under age
24 at the end of the year, a student, and younger than you (or
your spouse if filing jointly); or (c) any age if permanently and
totally disabled.
3. The child must have lived with you for more than half of the
year.2
4. The child must not have provided more than half of the child’s
own support for the year.
5. The child must not be filing a joint return for the year (unless
that joint return is filed only to get a refund of income tax
withheld or estimated tax paid).
If the child meets the rules to be a qualifying child of more than one
person, generally only one person can actually treat the child as a
qualifying child. See Qualifying Child of More Than One Person,
later, to find out which person is the person entitled to claim the
child as a qualifying child.
1. The person can’t be your qualifying child or the
qualifying child of any other taxpayer.
2. The person either (a) must be related to you in one of
the ways listed under Relatives who don’t have to live
with you, or (b) must live with you all year as a member
of your household2 (and your relationship must not
violate local law).
3. The person's gross income for the year must be less
than $5,200.3
4. Y ou must provide more than half of the person's total
support for the year.4
1 There is an exception for certain adopted children.
2 There are exceptions for temporary absences, children who were born or died during the year, children who were adopted or lawfully placed for
adoption during the year, children who are eligible foster children placed during the year, children of divorced or separated parents (or parents who
live apart), and kidnapped children.
3 There is an exception if the person is disabled and has income from a sheltered workshop.
4 There are exceptions for multiple support agreements, children of divorced or separated parents (or parents who live apart), and kidnapped
children.
T able 3-1.
Page 29 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 3 Dependents 27

[PAGE 30]
Exception for adopted child. If you are a U.S.
citizen or U.S. national who has legally adopted
a child who isn't a U.S. citizen, U.S. resident
alien, or U.S. national, this test is met if the child
lived with you as a member of your household
all year. This exception also applies if the child
was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption
and the child lived with you for the rest of the
year after placement.
Child's place of residence.  Children are usually citizens or residents of the country of their
parents.
If you were a U.S. citizen when your child
was born, the child may be a U.S. citizen and
meet this test even if the other parent was a
nonresident alien and the child was born in a
foreign country.
Foreign students' place of residence.  Foreign students brought to this country under a
qualified international education exchange program and placed in American homes for a temporary period generally aren't U.S. residents
and don’t meet this test. Y ou can’t claim them
as dependents. However, if you provided a
home for a foreign student, you may be able to
take a charitable contribution deduction. See
Expenses Paid for Student Living With Y ou  in
Pub. 526.
U.S. national. A U.S. national is an individual
who, although not a U.S. citizen, owes their allegiance to the United States. U.S. nationals include American Samoans and Northern Mariana Islanders who chose to become U.S.
nationals instead of U.S. citizens.
Qualifying Child
Five tests must be met for a child to be your
qualifying child. The five tests are:
1. Relationship,
2. Age,
3. Residency,
4. Support, and
5. Joint return.
These tests are explained next.
If a child meets the five tests to be the
qualifying child of more than one person, there are rules you must use to
determine which person can actually treat the
child as a qualifying child. See Qualifying Child
of More Than One Person, later.
Relationship Test
T o meet this test, a child must be:
• Y our son, daughter, stepchild, or foster
child, or a descendant (for example, your
grandchild) of any of them; or
• Y our brother, sister, half brother, half sister,
stepbrother, or stepsister, or a descendant
(for example, your niece or nephew) of any
of them.
Adopted child.  An adopted child is always
treated as your own child. The term “adopted
child” includes a child who was lawfully placed
with you for legal adoption.
CAUTION
!
Foster child. A foster child is an individual who
is placed with you by an authorized placement
agency or by judgment, decree, or other order
of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Age Test
T o meet this test, a child must be:
• Under age 19 at the end of the year and
younger than you (or your spouse if filing
jointly);
• A student under age 24 at the end of the
year and younger than you (or your spouse
if filing jointly); or
• Permanently and totally disabled at any
time during the year, regardless of age.
Example. Y our child turned 19 on December 10. Unless this child was permanently and
totally disabled or a student, this child doesn't
meet the age test because, at the end of the
year, this child wasn't under age 19.
Child must be younger than you or spouse.
T o be your qualifying child, a child who isn't permanently and totally disabled must be younger
than you. However, if you are married filing
jointly, the child must be younger than you or
your spouse but doesn't have to be younger
than both of you.
Example 1—Child not younger than you
or spouse.  Y our 23-year-old sibling, who is a
student and unmarried, lives with you and your
spouse, who provide more than half of your sibling’s support. Y our sibling isn't disabled. Both
you and your spouse are 21 years old, and you
file a joint return. Y our sibling isn't your qualifying child because your sibling isn't younger than
you or your spouse.
Example 2 —Child younger than your
spouse but not younger than you.  The facts
are the same as in Example 1 , except your
spouse is 25 years old. Because your sibling is
younger than your spouse, and you and your
spouse are filing a joint return, your sibling is
your qualifying child, even though your sibling
isn't younger than you.
Student defined. T o qualify as a student, your
child must be, during some part of each of any 5
calendar months of the year:
1. A full-time student at a school that has a
regular teaching staff and course of study,
and a regularly enrolled student body at
the school; or
2. A student taking a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school described in
(1), or by a state, county, or local government agency.
The 5 calendar months don’t have to be consecutive.
Full-time student.  A full -time student is a
student who is enrolled for the number of hours
or courses the school considers to be full -time
attendance.
School defined.  A school can be an elementary school; a junior or senior high school; a
college; a university; or a technical, trade, or
mechanical school. However, an on -the-job
training course, correspondence school, or
school offering courses only through the Internet doesn’t count as a school.
Vocational high school students.  Students who work on “co-op” jobs in private industry as a part of a school's regular course of
classroom and practical training are considered
full-time students.
Permanently and totally disabled.  Y our child
is permanently and totally disabled if both of the
following apply.
• Y our child can’t engage in any substantial
gainful activity because of a physical or
mental condition.
• A doctor determines the condition has lasted or can be expected to last continuously
for at least a year or can lead to death.
Residency Test
T o meet this test, your child must have lived with
you for more than half the year. There are exceptions for temporary absences, children who
were born or died during the year, adopted or
foster children, kidnapped children, and children of divorced or separated parents.
Temporary absences.  Y our child is considered to have lived with you during periods of
time when one of you, or both, is temporarily
absent due to special circumstances such as:
• Illness,
• Education,
• Business,
• Vacation,
• Military service, or
• Detention in a juvenile facility.
Death or birth of child.  A child who was born
or died during the year is treated as having lived
with you more than half of the year if your home
was the child's home more than half of the time
the child was alive during the year. The same is
true if the child lived with you more than half the
year except for any required hospital stay following birth.
Child born alive.  Y ou may be able to claim
as a dependent a child born alive during the
year, even if the child lived only for a moment.
State or local law must treat the child as having
been born alive. There must be proof of a live
birth shown by an official document, such as a
birth certificate. The child must be your qualifying child or qualifying relative, and all the other
tests to claim the child as a dependent must be
met.
Stillborn child.  Y ou can’t claim a stillborn
child as a dependent.
Adopted or foster child.  Y ou can treat your
adopted child or foster child as meeting the residency test as follows if you adopted the child in
2025, the child was lawfully placed with you for
legal adoption by you in 2025, or the child was
an eligible foster child placed with you during
2025. This child is considered to have lived with
you for more than half of 2025 if your main
home was this child’s main home for more than
half the time since this child was adopted or
placed with you in 2025.
Page 30 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
28 Chapter 3 Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 31]
Kidnapped child.  Y ou may be able to treat
your child as meeting the residency test even if
the child has been kidnapped. See Pub. 501 for
details.
Children of divorced or separated parents
(or parents who live apart).  In most cases,
because of the residency test, a child of divorced or separated parents is the qualifying
child of the custodial parent. However, the child
will be treated as the qualifying child of the noncustodial parent if all four of the following statements are true.
1. The parents:
a. Are divorced or legally separated under a decree of divorce or separate
maintenance;
b. Are separated under a written separation agreement; or
c. Lived apart at all times during the last
6 months of the year, whether or not
they are or were married.
2. The child received over half of the child’s
support for the year from the parents.
3. The child is in the custody of one or both
parents for more than half of the year.
4. Either of the following statements is true.
a. The custodial parent signs a written
declaration, discussed later, that they
won't claim the child as a dependent
for the year, and the noncustodial parent attaches this written declaration
to their return. (If the decree or agreement went into effect after 1984 and
before 2009, see Post-1984 and
pre-2009 divorce decree or separation agreement, later. If the decree or
agreement went into effect after 2008,
see Post-2008 divorce decree or separation agreement, later.)
b. A pre-1985 decree of divorce or separate maintenance or written separation agreement that applies to 2025
states that the noncustodial parent
can claim the child as a dependent,
the decree or agreement wasn't
changed after 1984 to say the noncustodial parent can’t claim the child
as a dependent, and the noncustodial
parent provides at least $600 for the
child's support during the year.
If statements (1) through (4) are all true, only
the noncustodial parent can:
• Claim the child as a dependent; and
• Claim the child as a qualifying child for the
child tax credit, the credit for other dependents, or the additional child tax credit.
However, this doesn’t allow the noncustodial
parent to claim head of household filing status,
the credit for child and dependent care expenses, the exclusion for dependent care benefits,
or the earned income credit. See Applying the
tiebreaker rules to divorced or separated parents (or parents who live apart), later.
Example—Earned income credit.  Even if
statements (1) through (4) are all true and the
custodial parent signs Form 8332 or a
substantially similar statement that the custodial
parent won’t claim the child as a dependent for
2025, this doesn’t allow the noncustodial parent
to claim the child as a qualifying child for the
earned income credit. The custodial parent or
another taxpayer, if eligible, can claim the child
for the earned income credit.
Custodial parent and noncustodial parent. The custodial parent is the parent with
whom the child lived for the greater number of
nights during the year. The other parent is the
noncustodial parent.
If the parents divorced or separated during
the year and the child lived with both parents
before the separation, the custodial parent is
the one with whom the child lived for the greater
number of nights during the rest of the year.
A child is treated as living with a parent for a
night if the child sleeps:
• At that parent's home, whether or not the
parent is present; or
• In the company of the parent, when the
child doesn't sleep at a parent's home (for
example, the parent and child are on vacation together).
Equal number of nights.  If the child lived
with each parent for an equal number of nights
during the year, the custodial parent is the parent with the higher adjusted gross income
(AGI).
December 31. The night of December 31 is
treated as part of the year in which the night begins. For example, the night of December 31,
2025, is treated as part of 2025.
Emancipated child. If a child is emancipated under state law, the child is treated as not
living with either parent. See Examples 5 and 6.
Absences. If a child wasn't with either parent on a particular night (because, for example,
the child was staying at a friend's house), the
child is treated as living with the parent with
whom the child normally would have lived for
that night, except for the absence. But if it can’t
be determined with which parent the child normally would have lived or if the child wouldn’t
have lived with either parent that night, the child
is treated as not living with either parent that
night.
Parent works at night.  If, due to a parent's
nighttime work schedule, a child lives for a
greater number of days, but not nights, with the
parent who works at night, that parent is treated
as the custodial parent. On a school day, the
child is treated as living at the primary residence registered with the school.
Example 1 —Child lived with one parent
for a greater number of nights. Y ou and your
child’s other parent are divorced. In 2025, your
child lived with you 210 nights and with the
other parent 155 nights. Y ou are the custodial
parent.
Example 2 —Child is away at camp.  In
2025, your child lives with each parent for alternate weeks. In the summer, your child spends 6
weeks at summer camp. During those 6 weeks,
your child is treated as living with you for 3
weeks and with your child’s other parent, your
ex-spouse, for 3 weeks because this is how
long the child would have lived with each parent
if the child had not attended summer camp.
Example 3—Child lived same number of
nights with each parent.  Y our child lived with
you 180 nights during the year and lived the
same number of nights with the child’s other parent, your ex-spouse. Y our AGI is $40,000. Y our
ex-spouse's AGI is $25,000. Y ou are treated as
your child's custodial parent because you have
the higher AGI.
Example 4 —Child is at parent’s home
but with other parent.  Y our child normally
lives with you during the week and with the
child’s other parent, your ex-spouse, every other
weekend. Y ou become ill and are hospitalized.
Y our ex-spouse lives in your home with your
child for 10 consecutive days while you are in
the hospital. Y our child is treated as living with
you during this 10 -day period because your
child was living in your home.
Example 5 —Child emancipated in May.
Y our child turned 18 in May 2025 and became
emancipated under the law of the state where
your child lives. As a result, your child isn't considered in the custody of either parent for more
than half of the year. The special rule for children of divorced or separated parents doesn't
apply.
Example 6 —Child emancipated in August. Y our child lives with you from January 1,
2025, until May 31, 2025, and lives with the
child’s other parent, your ex -spouse, from June
1, 2025, through the end of the year. Y our child
turns 18 and is emancipated under state law on
August 1, 2025. Because your child is treated
as not living with either parent beginning on August 1, your child is treated as living with you
the greater number of nights in 2025. Y ou are
the custodial parent.
Written declaration.  The custodial parent
must use either Form 8332 or a similar statement (containing the same information required
by the form) to make the written declaration to
release a claim to an exemption for a child to
the noncustodial parent. Although the exemption amount is zero for tax year 2025, this release allows the noncustodial parent to claim
the child tax credit, additional child tax credit,
and credit for other dependents, if applicable,
for the child. The noncustodial parent must attach a copy of the form or statement to their tax
return.
The release can be for 1 year, for a number
of specified years (for example, alternate
years), or for all future years, as specified in the
declaration.
Post-1984 and pre -2009 divorce decree
or separation agreement.  If the divorce decree or separation agreement went into effect
after 1984 and before 2009, the noncustodial
parent may be able to attach certain pages from
the decree or agreement instead of Form 8332.
The decree or agreement must state all three of
the following.
1. The noncustodial parent can claim the
child as a dependent without regard to any
condition, such as payment of support.
Page 31 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 3 Dependents 29

[PAGE 32]
2. The custodial parent won't claim the child
as a dependent for the year.
3. The years for which the noncustodial parent, rather than the custodial parent, can
claim the child as a dependent.
The noncustodial parent must attach all of
the following pages of the decree or agreement
to their tax return.
• The cover page (write the other parent's
SSN on this page).
• The pages that include all of the information identified in items (1) through (3)
above.
• The signature page with the other parent's
signature and the date of the agreement.
Post-2008 divorce decree or separation
agreement. The noncustodial parent can’t attach pages from the decree or agreement instead of Form 8332 if the decree or agreement
went into effect after 2008. The custodial parent
must sign either Form 8332 or a similar statement the only purpose of which is to release the
custodial parent's claim to an exemption for a
child, and the noncustodial parent must attach a
copy to their return. The form or statement must
release the custodial parent's claim to the child
without any conditions. For example, the release must not depend on the noncustodial parent paying support.
The noncustodial parent must attach
the required information even if it was
filed with a return in an earlier year.
Revocation of release of claim to an exemption. The custodial parent can revoke a release of claim to an exemption. For the revocation to be effective for 2025, the custodial parent
must have given (or made reasonable efforts to
give) written notice of the revocation to the noncustodial parent in 2024 or earlier. The custodial parent can use Part III of Form 8332 for this
purpose and must attach a copy of the revocation to their return for each tax year the custodial parent claims the child as a dependent as a
result of the revocation.
Remarried parent. If you remarry, the support provided by your new spouse is treated as
provided by you.
Parents who never married.  This special
rule for divorced or separated parents also applies to parents who never married and who
lived apart at all times during the last 6 months
of the year.
Support Test (To Be a Qualifying
Child)
T o meet this test, the child can’t have provided
more than half of the child’s own support for the
year.
This test is different from the support test to
be a qualifying relative, which is described later.
However, to see what is or isn't support, see
Support T est (T o Be a Qualifying Relative), later.
If you aren't sure whether a child provided more
than half of their own support, you may find
Worksheet 3-1 helpful.
Example. Y ou provided $4,000 toward your
16-year-old child's support for the year and the
CAUTION
!
child provided $6,000. Y our child provided more
than half their own support. The child isn't your
qualifying child.
Foster care payments and expenses.  Payments you receive for the support of a foster
child from a child placement agency are considered support provided by the agency. Similarly,
payments you receive for the support of a foster
child from a state or county are considered support provided by the state or county.
If you aren't in the trade or business of providing foster care and your unreimbursed
out-of-pocket expenses in caring for a foster
child were mainly to benefit an organization
qualified to receive deductible charitable contributions, the expenses are deductible as charitable contributions but aren't considered support
you provided. For more information about the
deduction for charitable contributions, see Pub.
526. If your unreimbursed expenses aren't deductible as charitable contributions, they may
qualify as support you provided.
If you are in the trade or business of providing foster care, your unreimbursed expenses
aren't considered support provided by you.
Example 1. A foster child lived with a married couple, the Smiths, for the last 3 months of
the year. The Smiths cared for the foster child
because they wanted to adopt the child (although the child had not been placed with them
for adoption). They didn't care for the foster
child as a trade or business or to benefit the
agency that placed the foster child in their
home. The Smiths' unreimbursed expenses
aren't deductible as charitable contributions but
are considered support they provided for the
foster child.
Example 2.  Y ou provided $3,000 toward
your 10 -year-old foster child's support for the
year. The state government provided $4,000,
which is considered support provided by the
state, not by the child. See Support provided by
the state (welfare, food stamps, housing, etc.) ,
later. Y our foster child didn't provide more than
half of their own support for the year.
Scholarships. A scholarship received by a
child who is a student isn't taken into account in
determining whether the child provided more
than half of their own support.
Joint Return Test (To Be a
Qualifying Child)
T o meet this test, the child can’t file a joint return
for the year.
Exception. An exception to the joint return test
applies if your child and the child’s spouse file a
joint return only to claim a refund of income tax
withheld or estimated tax paid.
Example 1 —Child files joint return.  Y ou
supported your 18 -year-old child who lived with
you all year while your child’s spouse was in the
Armed Forces. Y our child’s spouse earned
$35,000 for the year. The couple files a joint return so this child isn't your qualifying child.
Example 2 —Child files joint return only
as a claim for refund of withheld tax.  Y our
18-year-old child and your child’s 17 -year-old
spouse had $800 of wages from part -time jobs
and no other income. They lived with you all
year. Neither is required to file a tax return. They
don’t have a child. T axes were taken out of their
pay so they filed a joint return only to get a refund of the withheld taxes. The exception to the
joint return test applies, so this child may be
your qualifying child if all the other tests are met.
Example 3 —Child files joint return to
claim American opportunity credit.  The
facts are the same as in Example 2, except no
taxes were taken out of either spouse’s pay.
However, they file a joint return to claim an
American opportunity credit of $124 and get a
refund of that amount. Because they filed a joint
return claiming the American opportunity credit,
they aren’t filing it only to get a refund of income
tax withheld or estimated tax paid. The exception to the joint return test doesn't apply, so this
child isn't your qualifying child.
Qualifying Child of More Than One
Person
If your qualifying child isn't a qualifying
child of anyone else, this topic doesn't
apply to you and you don’t need to
read about it. This is also true if your qualifying
child isn't a qualifying child of anyone else except your spouse with whom you plan to file a
joint return.
If a child is treated as the qualifying
child of the noncustodial parent under
the rules for children of divorced or
separated parents (or parents who live apart)
described earlier, see Applying the tiebreaker
rules to divorced or separated parents (or parents who live apart), later.
Sometimes, a child meets the relationship,
age, residency, support, and joint return tests to
be a qualifying child of more than one person.
Although the child is a qualifying child of each of
these persons, generally only one person can
actually treat the child as a qualifying child to
take all of the following tax benefits (provided
the person is eligible for each benefit).
1. The child tax credit, credit for other dependents, or additional child tax credit.
2. Head of household filing status.
3. The credit for child and dependent care
expenses.
4. The exclusion from income for dependent
care benefits.
5. The earned income credit.
The other person can’t take any of these
benefits based on this qualifying child. In other
words, you and the other person can’t agree to
divide these benefits between you.
Tiebreaker rules. T o determine which person
can treat the child as a qualifying child to claim
these five tax benefits, the following tiebreaker
rules apply. For purposes of these tiebreaker
rules, the term “parent” means a biological or
TIP
CAUTION
!
Page 32 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
30 Chapter 3 Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 33]
Worksheet for Determining SupportWorksheet 3-1. Keep for Y our Records
Funds Belonging to the Person You Supported
1. Enter the total funds belonging to the person you supported, including income received (taxable
and nontaxable) and amounts borrowed during the year, plus the amount in savings and other
accounts at the beginning of the year. Don’t include funds provided by the state; include those
amounts on line 23 instead ........................................................ 1.
2. Enter the amount on line 1 that was used for the person's support ........................ 2.
3. Enter the amount on line 1 that was used for other purposes ............................. 3.
4. Enter the total amount in the person's savings and other accounts at the end of the year ...... 4.
5. Add lines 2 through 4. (This amount should equal line 1.) ............................... 5.
Expenses for Entire Household (where the person you supported lived)
6. Lodging (complete line 6a or 6b):
a. Enter the total rent paid ......................................................... 6a.
b. Enter the fair rental value of the home. If the person you supported owned the home,
also include this amount in line 21 ................................................ 6b.
7. Enter the total food expenses ...................................................... 7.
8. Enter the total amount of utilities (heat, light, water, etc., not included in line 6a or 6b) ........ 8.
9. Enter the total amount of repairs (not included in line 6a or 6b) ........................... 9.
10. Enter the total of other expenses. Don’t include expenses of maintaining the home, such as
mortgage interest, real estate taxes, and insurance .................................... 10.
11. Add lines 6a through 10. These are the total household expenses ........................ 11.
12. Enter total number of persons who lived in the household ............................... 12.
Expenses for the Person You Supported
13. Divide line 11 by line 12. This is the person's share of the household expenses ............. 13.
14. Enter the person's total clothing expenses ............................................ 14.
15. Enter the person's total education expenses .......................................... 15.
16. Enter the person's total medical and dental expenses not paid for or reimbursed by
insurance ...................................................................... 16.
17. Enter the person's total travel and recreation expenses ................................. 17.
18. Enter the total of the person's other expenses ......................................... 18.
19. Add lines 13 through 18. This is the total cost of the person's support for the year ........... 19.
Did the Person Provide More Than Half of the Person’s Own Support?
20. Multiply line 19 by 50% (0.50) ...................................................... 20.
21. Enter the amount from line 2, plus the amount from line 6b if the person you supported owned
the home. This is the amount the person provided for their own support .................... 21.
22. Is line 21 more than line 20?

No. Y ou meet the support test for this person to be your qualifying child. If this person also meets the other tests to be a
qualifying child, stop here; don’t complete lines 23–26. Otherwise, go to line 23 and fill out the rest of the worksheet to
determine if this person is your qualifying relative.

Yes. Y ou don’t meet the support test for this person to be either your qualifying child or your qualifying relative. Stop
here.

Did You Provide More Than Half?
23. Enter the amount others provided for the person's support. Include amounts provided by state,
local, and other welfare societies or agencies. Don’t include any amounts included on
line 1 .......................................................................... 23.
24. Add lines 21 and 23 .............................................................. 24.
25. Subtract line 24 from line 19. This is the amount you provided for the person's support ....... 25.
26. Is line 25 more than line 20?

Yes. Y ou meet the support test for this person to be your qualifying relative.

No. Y ou don’t meet the support test for this person to be your qualifying relative. Y ou can’t claim this person as a
dependent unless you can do so under a multiple support agreement, the support test for children of divorced or
separated parents (or parents who live apart), or the special rule for kidnapped children. See Multiple Support Agreement
or Support T est for Children of Divorced or Separated Parents (or Parents Who Live Apart), or Kidnapped child under
Qualifying Relative.
Page 33 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 3 Dependents 31

[PAGE 34]
adoptive parent of an individual. It doesn’t include a stepparent or foster parent unless that
person has adopted the individual.
• If only one of the persons is the child's parent, the child is treated as the qualifying
child of the parent.
• If the parents file a joint return together and
can claim the child as a qualifying child,
the child is treated as the qualifying child of
the parents.
• If the parents don’t file a joint return together but both parents claim the child as a
qualifying child, the IRS will treat the child
as the qualifying child of the parent with
whom the child lived for the longer period
of time during the year. If the child lived
with each parent for the same amount of
time, the IRS will treat the child as the qualifying child of the parent who had the
higher AGI for the year.
• If no parent can claim the child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the highest
AGI for the year.
• If a parent can claim the child as a qualifying child but no parent does so claim the
child, the child is treated as the qualifying
child of the person who had the highest
AGI for the year, but only if that person's
AGI is higher than the highest AGI of any of
the child's parents who can claim the child.
Subject to these tiebreaker rules, you and
the other person may be able to choose which
of you claims the child as a qualifying child.
Y ou may be able to qualify for the
earned income credit under the rules
for taxpayers without a qualifying child
if you have a qualifying child for the earned income credit who is claimed as a qualifying child
by another taxpayer. For more information, see
Pub. 596.
Example 1—Child lived with parent and
grandparent. Y ou and your 3 -year-old child
Jordan lived with your parent all year. Y ou are
25 years old and unmarried, and your AGI is
$9,000. Y our parent's AGI is $15,000. Y our
child’s other parent didn't live with you or your
child. Y ou haven't signed Form 8332 (or a similar statement).
Jordan is a qualifying child of both you and
your parent because Jordan meets the relationship, age, residency, support, and joint return
tests for both you and your parent. However,
only one of you can claim Jordan. Y our child
isn't a qualifying child of anyone else, including
Jordan’s other parent. Y ou agree to let your parent claim Jordan. This means your parent can
claim Jordan as a qualifying child for all of the
five tax benefits listed earlier, if your parent
qualifies for each of those benefits (and if you
don’t claim Jordan as a qualifying child for any
of those tax benefits).
Example 2—Parent has higher AGI than
grandparent. The facts are the same as in Example 1, except your AGI is $18,000. Because
your parent's AGI isn't higher than yours, your
parent can’t claim Jordan. Only you can claim
Jordan.
TIP
Example 3 —Two persons claim same
child. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except you and your parent both claim Jordan
as a qualifying child. In this case, you, as the
child's parent, will be the only one allowed to
claim the child as a qualifying child. The IRS will
disallow your parent's claim to the five tax benefits listed earlier based on Jordan. However,
your parent may qualify for the earned income
credit as a taxpayer without a qualifying child.
Example 4—Qualifying children split between two persons.  The facts are the same
as in Example 1, except you also have two other
young children who are qualifying children of
both you and your parent. Only one of you can
claim each child. However, if your parent's AGI
is higher than yours, you can allow your parent
to claim one or more of the children. For example, if you claim one child, your parent can claim
the other two.
Example 5 —Taxpayer who is a qualifying child. The facts are the same as in Example 1 , except you are only 18 years old and
didn't provide more than half of your own support for the year. This means you are your parent's qualifying child. If your parent can claim
you as a dependent, then you can’t claim your
child as a dependent because of the Dependent T axpayer T est, explained earlier, unless your
parent files a return only to claim a refund of income tax withheld or estimated tax paid.
Example 6 —Separated parents.  Y ou,
your spouse, and your 10-year-old child all lived
in the United States for all of 2025. On August
1, 2025, your spouse moved out of the household. In August and September, your child lived
with you. For the rest of the year, your child lived
with your spouse, the child's other parent. Y our
child is a qualifying child of both you and your
spouse because your child lived with each of
you for more than half the year and because
your child met the relationship, age, support,
and joint return tests for both of you. At the end
of the year, you and your spouse still weren't divorced, legally separated, or separated under a
written separation agreement, so the rule for
children of divorced or separated parents (or
parents who live apart) doesn't apply.
Y ou and your spouse will file separate returns. Y our spouse agrees to let you treat your
child as a qualifying child. This means, if your
spouse doesn't claim your child as a qualifying
child, you can claim this child as a qualifying
child for the child tax credit and exclusion for
dependent care benefits (if you qualify for each
of those tax benefits). However, you can’t claim
head of household filing status because you
and your spouse didn't live apart for the last 6
months of the year. As a result, your filing status
is married filing separately, so you can’t claim
the earned income credit because you don’t
meet the requirements for certain separated
spouses to claim the earned income credit
when they don’t file a joint return. Y ou and your
spouse didn't live apart for the last 6 months of
2025, and while you did live apart at the end of
2025, you aren't legally separated under a written separation agreement or decree of separate
maintenance. Therefore, you don't meet the requirements to take the earned income credit as
a separated spouse who is not filing a joint
return. Y ou also can't take the credit for child
and dependent care expenses because your filing status is married filing separately and you
and your spouse didn't live apart for the last 6
months of 2025.
Example 7 —Separated parents claim
same child.  The facts are the same as in Example 6 , except you and your spouse both
claim your child as a qualifying child. In this
case, only your spouse will be allowed to treat
your child as a qualifying child. This is because,
during 2025, the child lived with your spouse
longer than with you. If you claimed the child tax
credit for your child, the IRS will disallow your
claim to the child tax credit. If you don’t have another qualifying child or dependent, the IRS will
also disallow your claim to the exclusion for dependent care benefits. In addition, because you
and your spouse didn't live apart for the last 6
months of the year, your spouse can’t claim
head of household filing status. As a result, your
spouse’s filing status is married filing separately.
Y our spouse can’t claim the earned income
credit because your spouse doesn’t meet the
requirements to claim the earned income credit
for certain separated spouses. Y ou and your
spouse didn't live apart for the last 6 months of
2025, and, while you did live apart at the end of
2025, you aren't legally separated under a written separation agreement or decree of separate
maintenance. Therefore, your spouse doesn't
meet the requirements to take the earned income credit as a separated spouse who isn’t filing a joint return. Y our spouse also can't take
the credit for child and dependent care expenses because your spouse’s filing status is married filing separately and you and your spouse
didn't live apart for the last 6 months of 2025.
Example 8 —Unmarried parents.  Y ou,
your 5-year-old child, Marley, and Marley’s other
parent lived together in the United States all
year. Y ou and Marley’s other parent aren't married. Marley is a qualifying child of both you and
the other parent because Marley meets the relationship, age, residency, support, and joint return tests for both you and the other parent.
Y our AGI is $12,000 and the other parent’s AGI
is $14,000. The other parent agrees to let you
claim Marley as a qualifying child. This means
you can claim Marley as a qualifying child for
the child tax credit, head of household filing status, the credit for child and dependent care expenses, the exclusion for dependent care benefits, and the earned income credit, if you qualify
for each of those tax benefits (and if the other
parent doesn't claim Marley as a qualifying child
for any of those tax benefits).
Example 9 —Unmarried parents claim
same child. The facts are the same as in Example 8, except you and Marley’s other parent
both claim Marley as a qualifying child. In this
case, only the other parent will be allowed to
treat Marley as a qualifying child. This is because the other parent’s AGI, $14,000, is more
than your AGI, $12,000. If you claimed the child
tax credit for Marley, the IRS will disallow your
claim to this credit. If you don’t have another
qualifying child or dependent, the IRS will also
disallow your claim to head of household filing
status, the credit for child and dependent care
expenses, and the exclusion for dependent care
Page 34 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
32 Chapter 3 Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 35]
benefits. However, you may be able to claim the
earned income credit as a taxpayer without a
qualifying child.
Example 10—Child didn't live with a parent. Y ou and your sibling’s child, Reid, lived
with your parent all year. Y ou are 25 years old,
and your AGI is $9,300. Y our parent’s AGI is
$15,000. Reid’s parents file jointly, have an AGI
of less than $9,000, and don’t live with you or
Reid. Reid is a qualifying child of both you and
your parent because Reid meets the relationship, age, residency, support, and joint return
tests for both you and your parent. However,
only your parent can treat Reid as a qualifying
child. This is because your parent’s AGI,
$15,000, is more than your AGI, $9,300.
Applying the tiebreaker rules to divorced or
separated parents (or parents who live
apart). If a child is treated as the qualifying
child of the noncustodial parent under the rules
described earlier for children of divorced or separated parents (or parents who live apart) , only
the noncustodial parent can claim the child as a
dependent and claim the child tax credit, additional child tax credit, or credit for other dependents for the child. However, only the custodial
parent can claim the credit for child and dependent care expenses or the exclusion for dependent care benefits for the child. Also, generally, the noncustodial parent can't claim the
child as a qualifying child for head of household
filing status or the earned income credit. Instead, generally, the custodial parent, if eligible,
or other eligible person can claim the child as a
qualifying child for those two benefits. If the
child is the qualifying child of more than one
person for these benefits, then the tiebreaker
rules just explained determine whether the custodial parent or another eligible person can treat
the child as a qualifying child.
Example 1. Y ou and your 5-year-old child,
Kody, lived all year with your parent in the United States. Y our parent paid the entire cost of
keeping up the home. Y our AGI is $10,000. Y our
parent's AGI is $25,000. Kody’s other parent
lived in the United States all year, but didn’t live
with you or Kody.
Under the rules explained earlier for children
of divorced or separated parents (or parents
who live apart), Kody is treated as the qualifying
child of Kody’s other parent, who can claim the
child tax credit for the child. Because of this,
you can’t claim the child tax credit for your child.
However, those rules don't allow Kody’s other
parent to claim Kody as a qualifying child for
head of household filing status, the credit for
child and dependent care expenses, the exclusion for dependent care benefits, or the earned
income credit.
Y ou and your parent didn't have any child
care expenses or dependent care benefits, so
neither of you can claim the credit for child and
dependent care expenses or the exclusion for
dependent care benefits. But Kody is a qualifying child of both you and your parent for head of
household filing status and the earned income
credit because Kody meets the relationship,
age, residency, support, and joint return tests
for both you and your parent. (The support test
doesn't apply for the earned income credit.)
However, you agree to let your parent claim
Kody. This means your parent can claim Kody
for head of household filing status and the
earned income credit if your parent qualifies for
each and if you don’t claim Kody as a qualifying
child for the earned income credit. (Y ou can’t
claim head of household filing status because
your parent paid the entire cost of keeping up
the home.) Y ou may be able to claim the earned
income credit as a taxpayer without a qualifying
child.
Example 2.  The facts are the same as in
Example 1 , except your AGI is $25,000 and
your parent's AGI is $21,000. Y our parent can’t
claim Kody as a qualifying child for any purpose
because your parent’s AGI isn't higher than
yours.
Example 3.  The facts are the same as in
Example 1 , except you and your parent both
claim Kody as a qualifying child for the earned
income credit. Y our parent also claims Kody as
a qualifying child for head of household filing
status. Y ou, as the child's parent, will be the
only one allowed to claim Kody as a qualifying
child for the earned income credit. The IRS will
disallow your parent's claim to head of household filing status unless your parent has another
qualifying child or dependent. Y our parent can't
claim the earned income credit as a taxpayer
without a qualifying child because your parent’s
AGI is more than $19,104.
Qualifying Relative
Four tests must be met for a person to be your
qualifying relative. The four tests are:
1. Not a qualifying child test,
2. Member of household or relationship test,
3. Gross income test, and
4. Support test.
Age. Unlike a qualifying child, a qualifying relative can be any age. There is no age test for a
qualifying relative.
Kidnapped child.  Y ou may be able to treat a
child as your qualifying relative even if the child
has been kidnapped. See Pub. 501 for details.
Not a Qualifying Child Test
A child isn't your qualifying relative if the child is
your qualifying child or the qualifying child of
any other taxpayer.
Example 1. Y our 22-year-old child, who is a
student, lives with you and meets all the tests to
be your qualifying child. This child isn't your
qualifying relative.
Example 2. Y our 2-year-old child lives with
your parents and meets all the tests to be their
qualifying child. This child isn't your qualifying
relative.
Example 3.  Y our 30 -year-old child lives
with you. This child isn’t a qualifying child because the age test isn’t met. This child may be
your qualifying relative if the gross income test
and the support test are met.
Example 4.  Y our 13 -year-old grandchild
only lived with you for 5 months during the year.
Y our grandchild isn’t your qualifying child because the residency test isn’t met. Y our grandchild may be your qualifying relative if the gross
income test and the support test are met.
Child of person not required to file a return.
A child isn't the qualifying child of any other taxpayer and so may qualify as your qualifying relative if the child's parent (or other person for
whom the child is defined as a qualifying child)
isn't required to file an income tax return and either:
• Doesn't file an income tax return, or
• Files a return only to get a refund of income tax withheld or estimated tax paid.
Example 1 —Return not required.  Y ou
support an unrelated friend and your friend’s
3-year-old child, who lived with you all year in
your home. Y our friend has no gross income,
isn't required to file a 2025 tax return, and
doesn't file a 2025 tax return. Both your friend
and your friend’s child are your qualifying relatives if the support test is met.
Example 2—Return filed to claim refund.
The facts are the same as in Example 1, except
your friend had wages of $1,500 during the year
and had income tax withheld from their wages.
Y our friend files a return only to get a refund of
the income tax withheld and doesn't claim the
earned income credit or any other tax credits or
deductions. Both your friend and your friend’s
child are your qualifying relatives if the support
test is met.
Example 3 —Earned income credit
claimed. The facts are the same as in Example 2 , except your friend had wages of $8,000
during the year and claimed the earned income
credit. Y our friend's child is the qualifying child
of another taxpayer (your friend), so you can’t
claim your friend's child as your qualifying relative. Also, you can’t claim your friend as your
qualifying relative because of the gross income
test, explained later.
Child in Canada or Mexico.  Y ou may be able
to claim your child as a dependent even if the
child lives in Canada or Mexico. If the child
doesn't live with you, the child doesn't meet the
residency test to be your qualifying child. However, the child may still be your qualifying relative. If the persons the child does live with aren't
U.S. citizens and have no U.S. gross income,
those persons aren't “taxpayers,” so the child
isn't the qualifying child of any other taxpayer. If
the child isn't the qualifying child of any other
taxpayer, the child is your qualifying relative as
long as the gross income test and the support
test are met.
Y ou can’t claim as a dependent a child who
lives in a foreign country other than Canada or
Mexico, unless the child is a U.S. citizen, U.S.
resident alien, or U.S. national. There is an exception for certain adopted children who lived
with you all year. See Citizen or Resident T est,
earlier.
Example. Y ou provide all the support of
your children, ages 6, 8, and 12, who live in
Mexico with your parent and have no income.
Y ou are single and live in the United States.
Y our parent isn't a U.S. citizen and has no U.S.
Page 35 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 3 Dependents 33

[PAGE 36]
income, so your parent isn't a “taxpayer.” Y our
children aren't your qualifying children because
they don’t meet the residency test. But since
they aren't the qualifying children of any other
taxpayer, they may be your qualifying relatives
and you may be permitted to claim them as dependents. Y ou may also be able to claim your
parent as a dependent if the gross income and
support tests are met.
Member of Household or
Relationship Test
T o meet this test, a person must either:
1. Live with you all year as a member of your
household, or
2. Be related to you in one of the ways listed
under Relatives who don’t have to live with
you below.
If at any time during the year the person was
your spouse, that person can’t be your qualifying relative.
Relatives who don’t have to live with you. A
person related to you in any of the following
ways doesn't have to live with you all year as a
member of your household to meet this test.
• Y our child, stepchild, or foster child, or a
descendant of any of them (for example,
your grandchild). (A legally adopted child is
considered your child.)
• Y our brother, sister, half brother, half sister,
stepbrother, or stepsister.
• Y our father, mother, grandparent, or other
direct ancestor, but not foster parent.
• Y our stepfather or stepmother.
• A son or daughter of your brother or sister.
• A son or daughter of your half brother or
half sister.
• A brother or sister of your father or mother.
• Y our son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law,
or sister-in-law.
Any of these relationships that were established
by marriage aren't ended by death or divorce.
Example. In 2019, you and your spouse
began supporting your spouse’s unmarried parent, Gene. Y our spouse died in 2024. Despite
your spouse’s death, Gene continues to meet
this test, even if Gene doesn’t live with you. Y ou
can claim Gene as a dependent if all other tests
are met, including the gross income and support tests.
Foster child.  A foster child is an individual
who is placed with you by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other
order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Joint return.  If you file a joint return, the person can be related to either you or your spouse.
Also, the person doesn't need to be related to
the spouse who provides support.
For example, you provide more than half the
support for your spouse’s stepparent. Y our
spouse’s stepparent may be your qualifying relative even if the stepparent doesn't live with
you. However, if you and your spouse file separate returns, your spouse's stepparent can be
your qualifying relative only if the stepparent
lives with you all year as a member of your
household.
Temporary absences. A person is considered
to live with you as a member of your household
during periods of time when one of you, or both,
is temporarily absent due to special circumstances such as:
• Illness,
• Education,
• Business,
• Vacation,
• Military service, or
• Detention in a juvenile facility.
If the person is placed in a nursing home for
an indefinite period of time to receive constant
medical care, the absence may be considered
temporary.
Death or birth.  A person who died during the
year, but lived with you as a member of your
household until death, will meet this test. The
same is true for a child who was born during the
year and lived with you as a member of your
household for the rest of the year. The test is
also met if a child lived with you as a member of
your household except for any required hospital
stay following birth.
If your dependent died during the year and
you otherwise qualify to claim that person as a
dependent, you can still claim that person as a
dependent.
Example. Y our parent, who met the tests to
be your qualifying relative, died on January 15.
Y ou can claim your parent as a dependent on
your return.
Local law violated.  A person doesn't meet
this test if at any time during the year the relationship between you and that person violates
local law.
Example. Y our significant other lived with
you as a member of your household all year.
However, your relationship violated the laws of
the state where you live because your significant other was married to someone else. Therefore, your significant other doesn't meet this test
and you can’t claim them as a dependent.
Adopted child.  An adopted child is always
treated as your own child. The term “adopted
child” includes a child who was lawfully placed
with you for legal adoption.
Cousin. Y our cousin must live with you all year
as a member of your household to meet this
test. A cousin is a descendant of a brother or
sister of your father or mother.
Gross Income Test
T o meet this test, a person's gross income for
the year must be less than $5,200.
Gross income defined. Gross income is all income in the form of money, property, and services that isn't exempt from tax.
In a manufacturing, merchandising, or mining business, gross income is the total net sales
minus the cost of goods sold, plus any miscellaneous income from the business.
Gross receipts from rental property are
gross income. Don’t deduct taxes, repairs, or
other expenses to determine the gross income
from rental property.
Gross income includes a partner's share of
the gross (not a share of the net) partnership income.
Gross income also includes all taxable unemployment compensation, taxable social security benefits, and certain amounts received as
scholarship and fellowship grants. Scholarships
received by degree candidates and used for tuition, fees, supplies, books, and equipment required for particular courses generally aren't included in gross income. For more information
about scholarships, see chapter 8.
Disabled dependent working at sheltered
workshop. For purposes of the gross income
test, the gross income of an individual who is
permanently and totally disabled at any time
during the year doesn't include income for services the individual performs at a sheltered workshop. The availability of medical care at the
workshop must be the main reason for the individual's presence there. Also, the income must
come solely from activities at the workshop that
are incident to this medical care.
A “sheltered workshop” is a school that:
• Provides special instruction or training designed to alleviate the disability of the individual; and
• Is operated by certain tax-exempt organizations, or by a state, a U.S. territory, a political subdivision of a state or territory, the
United States, or the District of Columbia.
Permanently and totally disabled  has the
same meaning here as under Qualifying Child,
earlier.
Support Test (To Be a Qualifying
Relative)
T o meet this test, you must generally provide
more than half of a person's total support during
the calendar year.
However, if two or more persons provide
support, but no one person provides more than
half of a person's total support, see Multiple
Support Agreement, later.
How to determine if support test is met.
Y ou figure whether you have provided more
than half of a person's total support by comparing the amount you contributed to that person's
support with the entire amount of support that
person received from all sources. This includes
support the person provided from the person’s
own funds.
Y ou may find Worksheet 3-1 helpful in figuring whether you provided more than half of a
person's support.
Person's own funds not used for support. A
person's own funds aren't support unless they
are actually spent for support.
Example. Y our parent received $2,400 in
social security benefits and $300 in interest,
paid $2,000 for lodging and $400 for recreation,
and put $300 in a savings account.
Even though your parent received a total of
$2,700 ($2,400 + $300), your parent spent only
$2,400 ($2,000 + $400) for your parent’s own
Page 36 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
34 Chapter 3 Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 37]
support. If you spent more than $2,400 for your
parent’s support and no other support was received, you have provided more than half of
your parent’s support.
Child's wages used for own support.  Y ou
can’t include in your contribution to your child's
support any support paid for by the child with
the child's own wages, even if you paid the wages.
Year support is provided.  The year you provide the support is the year you pay for it, even if
you do so with borrowed money that you repay
in a later year.
If you use a fiscal year to report your income,
you must provide more than half of the dependent's support for the calendar year in which your
fiscal year begins.
Armed Forces dependency allotments.  The
part of the allotment contributed by the government and the part taken out of your military pay
are both considered provided by you in figuring
whether you provide more than half of the support. If your allotment is used to support persons other than those you name, you can claim
them as dependents if they otherwise qualify.
Example. Y ou are in the Armed Forces. Y ou
authorize an allotment for your surviving parent
that your surviving parent uses to support themselves and their sibling. If the allotment provides
more than half of each person's support, you
can claim each of them as a dependent, if they
otherwise qualify, even though you authorize the
allotment only for your surviving parent.
Tax-exempt military quarters allowances.
These allowances are treated the same way as
dependency allotments in figuring support. The
allotment of pay and the tax -exempt basic allowance for quarters are both considered as
provided by you for support.
Tax-exempt income. In figuring a person's total support, include tax -exempt income, savings, and borrowed amounts used to support
that person. T ax-exempt income includes certain social security benefits, welfare benefits,
nontaxable life insurance proceeds, Armed
Forces family allotments, nontaxable pensions,
and tax-exempt interest.
Example 1.  Y ou provide $4,000 toward
your parent’s support during the year. Y our parent has earned income of $600, nontaxable social security benefits of $4,800, and tax -exempt
interest of $200, all of which your parent uses
for self-support. Y ou can’t claim your parent as
a dependent because the $4,000 you provide
isn’t more than half of your parent’s total support
of $9,600 ($4,000 + $600 +$4,800 + $200).
Example 2. Y our sibling takes out a student
loan of $2,500 and uses it to pay college tuition.
Y our sibling is personally responsible for the
loan. Y ou provide $2,000 toward their total support. Y ou can’t claim them as a dependent because you provide less than half of their support.
Social security benefits.  If a married couple receives benefits that are paid by one check
made out to both of them, half of the total paid
is considered to be for the support of each
spouse, unless they can show otherwise.
If a child receives social security benefits
and uses them toward their own support, the
benefits are considered as provided by the
child.
Support provided by the state (welfare,
food stamps, housing, etc.).  Benefits provided by the state to a needy person are generally considered support provided by the state.
However, payments based on the needs of the
recipient won't be considered as used entirely
for that person's support if it is shown that part
of the payments weren't used for that purpose.
TANF and other governmental payments.
Under proposed T reasury regulations, if you received TANF payments or other similar payments and used the payments to support another person, those payments are considered
support you provided for that person, rather
than support provided by the government or
other third party.
Foster care. Payments you receive for the support of a foster child from a child placement
agency are considered support provided by the
agency. See Foster care payments and expenses, earlier.
Home for the aged.  If you make a lump -sum
advance payment to a home for the aged to
take care of your relative for life and the payment is based on that person's life expectancy,
the amount of support you provide each year is
the lump-sum payment divided by the relative's
life expectancy. The amount of support you provide also includes any other amounts you provided during the year.
Total Support
T o figure if you provided more than half of a person's support, you must first determine the total
support provided for that person. T otal support
includes amounts spent to provide food, lodging, clothing, education, medical and dental
care, recreation, transportation, and similar necessities.
Generally, the amount of an item of support
is the amount of the expense incurred in providing that item. For lodging, the amount of support
is the fair rental value of the lodging.
Expenses not directly related to any one
member of a household, such as the cost of
food for the household, must be divided among
the members of the household.
Example 1.  A married couple lives with
their two children and one of their parents. Their
parent gets social security benefits of $2,400,
which the parent spends for clothing, transportation, and recreation. The parent has no other
income. The married couple’s total food expense for the household is $5,200. They pay
the parent’s medical and drug expenses of
$1,200. The fair rental value of the lodging provided for the parent is $1,800 a year, based on
the cost of similar rooming facilities. Figure the
parent’s total support as follows.
Fair rental value of lodging ......... $ 1,800
Clothing, transportation, and
recreation ................. 2,400
Medical expenses ............. 1,200
Share of food (1/5 of $5,200) ....... 1,040
Total support ............... $6,440
The support the married couple provide,
$4,040 ($1,800 lodging + $1,200 medical expenses + $1,040 food), is more than half of the
parent's $6,440 total support.
Example 2. Y our parents, Aubrey and Bailey, live with you, your spouse, and your two
children in a house you own. The fair rental
value of your parents' share of the lodging is
$2,000 a year ($1,000 each), which includes
furnishings and utilities. Aubrey receives a nontaxable pension of $4,200, which Aubrey
spends equally between Aubrey and Bailey for
items of support such as clothing, transportation, and recreation. Y our total food expense for
the household is $6,000. Y our heat and utility
bills amount to $1,200. Bailey has hospital and
medical expenses of $600, which you pay during the year. Figure your parents' total support
as follows.
Support provided Aubrey Bailey
Fair rental value of lodging ... $1,000 $1,000
Pension spent for their
support ............ 2,100 2,100
Share of food (1/6 of
$6,000) ............ 1,000 1,000
Medical expenses for Bailey .. 600
Parents' total support .... $4,100 $4,700
Y ou must apply the support test separately
to each parent. Y ou provide $2,000 ($1,000
lodging + $1,000 food) of Aubrey’s total support
of $4,100—less than half. Y ou provide $2,600 to
Bailey ($1,000 lodging + $1,000 food + $600
medical)—more than half of Bailey’s total support of $4,700. Y ou meet the support test for
Bailey, but not Aubrey. Heat and utility costs are
included in the fair rental value of the lodging,
so these aren't considered separately.
Lodging. If you provide a person with lodging,
you are considered to provide support equal to
the fair rental value of the room, apartment,
house, or other shelter in which the person
lives. Fair rental value includes a reasonable allowance for the use of furniture and appliances,
and for heat and other utilities that are provided.
Fair rental value defined.  Fair rental value
is the amount you could reasonably expect to
receive from a stranger for the same kind of
lodging. It is used instead of actual expenses
such as taxes, interest, depreciation, paint, insurance, utilities, and the cost of furniture and
appliances. In some cases, fair rental value may
be equal to the rent paid.
If you provide the total lodging, the amount
of support you provide is the fair rental value of
the room the person uses, or a share of the fair
rental value of the entire dwelling if the person
has use of your entire home. If you don’t provide
the total lodging, the total fair rental value must
be divided depending on how much of the total
Page 37 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 3 Dependents 35

[PAGE 38]
lodging you provide. If you provide only a part
and the person supplies the rest, the fair rental
value must be divided between both of you according to the amount each provides.
Example. Y our parents live rent free in a
house you own. It has a fair rental value of
$5,400 a year furnished, which includes a fair
rental value of $3,600 for the house and $1,800
for the furniture. This doesn't include heat and
utilities. The house is completely furnished with
furniture belonging to your parents. Y ou pay
$600 for their utility bills. Utilities usually aren't
included in rent for houses in the area where
your parents live. Therefore, you consider the
total fair rental value of the lodging to be $6,000
($3,600 fair rental value of the unfurnished
house + $1,800 allowance for the furnishings
provided by your parents + $600 cost of utilities)
of which you are considered to provide $4,200
($3,600 + $600).
Person living in their own home. The total
fair rental value of a person's home that the person owns is considered support contributed by
that person.
Living with someone rent free.  If you live
with a person rent free in that person’s home,
you must reduce the amount you provide for
support of that person by the fair rental value of
lodging the person provides you.
Property. Property provided as support is
measured by its fair market value. Fair market
value is the price that property would sell for on
the open market. It is the price that would be
agreed upon between a willing buyer and a willing seller, with neither being required to act, and
both having reasonable knowledge of the relevant facts.
Capital expenses.  Capital items, such as
furniture, appliances, and cars, bought for a person during the year can be included in total support under certain circumstances.
The following examples show when a capital
item is or isn't support.
Example 1.  Y ou buy a $200 power lawn
mower for your 13 -year-old child. The child is
given the duty of keeping the lawn trimmed. Because the lawn mower benefits all members of
the household, don’t include the cost of the
lawn mower in the support of your child.
Example 2.  Y ou buy a $150 television set
as a birthday present for your 12 -year-old child.
The television set is placed in your child's bedroom. Y ou can include the cost of the television
set in the support of your child.
Example 3.  Y ou pay $5,000 for a car and
register it in your name. Y ou and your
17-year-old child use the car equally. Because
you own the car and don’t give it to your child
but merely let your child use it, don’t include the
cost of the car in your child’s total support. However, you can include in your child's support
your out -of-pocket expenses of operating the
car for your child’s benefit.
Example 4.  Y our 17-year-old child, using
personal funds, buys a car for $4,500. Y ou provide the rest of your child's support, $4,000. Because the car is bought and owned by your
child, the car's fair market value ($4,500) must
be included in your child’s support. Y our child
has provided more than half of their own total
support of $8,500 ($4,500 + $4,000), so this
child isn't your qualifying child. Y ou didn't provide more than half of the child’s total support,
so the child isn't your qualifying relative. Y ou
can’t claim this child as a dependent.
Medical insurance premiums. Medical insurance premiums you pay, including premiums for
supplementary Medicare coverage, are included in the support you provide.
Medical insurance benefits. Medical insurance benefits, including basic and supplementary Medicare benefits, aren't part of support.
Tuition payments and allowances under the
GI Bill. Amounts veterans receive under the GI
Bill for tuition payments and allowances while
they attend school are included in total support.
Example. During the year, your child receives $2,200 from the government under the
GI Bill. Y our child uses this amount for their education. Y ou provide the rest of your child’s support, $2,000. Because GI benefits are included
in total support, your child’s total support is
$4,200 ($2,200 + $2,000). Y ou haven't provided
more than half of your child’s support.
Childcare expenses.  If you pay someone to
provide child or dependent care, you can include these payments in the amount you provided for the support of your child or disabled dependent, even if you claim a credit for the
payments. For information on the credit, see
Pub. 503.
Other support items.  Other items may be
considered as support depending on the facts
in each case.
Don’t Include in Total Support
The following items aren't included in total support.
1. Federal, state, and local income taxes
paid by persons from their own income.
2. Social security and Medicare taxes paid
by persons from their own income.
3. Life insurance premiums.
4. Funeral expenses.
5. Scholarships received by your child if your
child is a student.
6. Survivors' and Dependents' Educational
Assistance payments used for the support
of the child who receives them.
Multiple Support Agreement
Sometimes no one provides more than half of
the support of a person. Instead, two or more
persons, each of whom would be able to claim
the person as a dependent but for the support
test, together provide more than half of the person's support.
When this happens, you can agree that any
one of you who individually provides more than
10% of the person's support, but only one, can
claim the person as a dependent. Each of the
others must sign a statement agreeing not to
claim the person as a dependent for that year.
The person who claims the person as a dependent must keep these signed statements for
their own records. A multiple support declaration identifying each of the others who agreed
not to claim the person as a dependent must be
attached to the return of the person claiming the
person as a dependent. Form 2120 can be
used for this purpose.
Y ou can claim someone as a dependent under a multiple support agreement for someone
related to you or for someone who lived with
you all year as a member of your household.
Example 1.  Y ou, and your siblings, Sam,
Bobbi, and Dani, provide the entire support of
your parent for the year. Y ou provide 45%, Sam
provides 35%, and Bobbi and Dani each provide 10%. Either you or Sam can claim your parent as a dependent; the one who doesn’t must
sign a statement agreeing not to claim your parent as a dependent. The one who claims your
parent as a dependent must attach Form 2120,
or a similar declaration, to their return and must
keep the statement signed by the other for their
records. Because neither Bobbi nor Dani provides more than 10% of the support, neither can
claim your parent as a dependent and neither
has to sign a statement.
Example 2. Y ou and your sibling each provide 20% of your parent's support for the year.
The remaining 60% of your parent’s support is
provided equally by two persons who are unrelated. Y our parent doesn't live with them. Because more than half of your parent’s support is
provided by persons who can’t claim your parent as a dependent, no one can claim your parent as a dependent.
Support Test for Children of
Divorced or Separated Parents (or
Parents Who Live Apart)
In most cases, a child of divorced or separated
parents (or parents who live apart) will be a
qualifying child of one of the parents. See Children of divorced or separated parents (or parents who live apart)  under Qualifying Child ,
earlier. However, if the child doesn't meet the requirements to be a qualifying child of either parent, the child may be a qualifying relative of
one of the parents. If you think this might apply
to you, see Pub. 501.
Social Security
Numbers (SSNs)
for Dependents
Y ou must show the SSN of any dependent you
list in the Dependents section of your Form
1040 or 1040-SR.
If you don’t show the dependent's SSN
when required, or if you show an incorrect SSN, certain tax benefits may be
disallowed.
No SSN. If a person whom you expect to claim
as a dependent on your return doesn't have an
SSN, either you or that person should apply for
an SSN as soon as possible by filing Form
SS-5, Application for a Social Security Card,
with the Social Security Administration (SSA).
CAUTION
!
Page 38 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
36 Chapter 3 Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 39]
Y ou can get Form SS -5 online at SSA.gov/
forms/ss-5.pdf or at your local SSA office.
It usually takes about 2 weeks to get an SSN
once the SSA has all the information it needs. If
you don’t have a required SSN by the filing due
date, you can file Form 4868 for an extension of
time to file.
Born and died in 2025.  If your child was
born and died in 2025, and you don’t have an
SSN for the child, you may attach a copy of the
child's birth certificate, death certificate, or hospital records instead. The document must show
the child was born alive. If you do this, enter
“DIED” in row (3) of the Dependents section of
your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Alien or adoptee with no SSN.  If your dependent doesn't have and can’t get an SSN,
you must show the Individual T axpayer Identification Number (ITIN) or adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN) instead of an SSN.
Taxpayer identification numbers for aliens. If your dependent is a resident or nonresident alien who doesn't have and isn't eligible to
get an SSN, your dependent must apply for an
ITIN. For details on how to apply, see Form
W-7, Application for IRS Individual T axpayer
Identification Number.
Taxpayer identification numbers for
adoptees. If you have a child who was placed
with you by an authorized placement agency,
you may be able to claim the child as a dependent. However, if you can’t get an SSN or an ITIN
for the child, you must get an ATIN for the child
from the IRS. See Form W -7A, Application for
T axpayer Identification Number for Pending U.S.
Adoptions, for details.
4.
Tax Withholding
and Estimated
Tax
What’s New for 2026
Tax law changes for 2026.  When you figure
how much income tax you want withheld from
your pay and when you figure your estimated
tax, consider tax law changes effective in 2026.
For more information, see Pub. 505, T ax Withholding and Estimated T ax.
Reminders
Estimated tax safe harbor for higher income taxpayers. If your 2025 adjusted gross
income was more than $150,000 ($75,000 if
you are married filing a separate return), you
must pay the smaller of 90% of your expected
tax for 2026 or 110% of the tax shown on your
2025 return to avoid an estimated tax penalty.
Introduction
This chapter discusses how to pay your tax as
you earn or receive income during the year. In
general, the federal income tax is a
pay-as-you-go tax. There are two ways to pay
as you go.
• Withholding. If you are an employee, your
employer probably withholds income tax
from your pay. T ax may also be withheld
from certain other income, such as pensions, bonuses, commissions, and gambling winnings. The amount withheld is
paid to the IRS in your name.
• Estimated tax. If you don’t pay your tax
through withholding, or don’t pay enough
tax that way, you may have to pay estimated tax. People who are in business for
themselves will generally have to pay their
tax this way. Also, you may have to pay estimated tax if you receive income such as
dividends, interest, capital gains, rent, and
royalties. Estimated tax is used to pay not
only income tax, but self-employment tax
and alternative minimum tax as well.
This chapter explains these methods. In addition, it also explains the following.
• Credit for withholding and estimated
tax. When you file your 2025 income tax
return, take credit for all the income tax
withheld from your salary, wages, pensions, etc., and for the estimated tax you
paid for 2025. Also take credit for any excess social security or railroad retirement
tax withheld. See Pub. 505.
• Underpayment penalty. If you didn’t pay
enough tax during the year, either through
withholding or by making estimated tax
payments, you may have to pay a penalty.
In most cases, the IRS can figure this penalty for you. See Underpayment Penalty for
2025 at the end of this chapter.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
505 T ax Withholding and Estimated T ax
Form (and Instructions)
W-4 Employee’s Withholding Certificate
W-4P Withholding Certificate for Periodic
Pension or Annuity Payments
W-4S Request for Federal Income T ax
Withholding From Sick Pay
W-4V Voluntary Withholding Request
1040-ES Estimated T ax for Individuals
2210 Underpayment of Estimated T ax by
Individuals, Estates, and T rusts
2210-F Underpayment of Estimated T ax
by Farmers and Fishers
  505
  W-4
  W-4P
  W-4S
  W-4V
  1040-ES
  2210
  2210-F
Tax Withholding for
2026
This section discusses income tax withholding
on:
• Salaries and wages,
• Tips,
• T axable fringe benefits,
• Sick pay,
• Pensions and annuities,
• Gambling winnings,
• Unemployment compensation, and
• Certain federal payments.
This section explains the rules for withholding
tax from each of these types of income.
This section also covers backup withholding
on interest, dividends, and other payments.
Salaries and Wages
Income tax is withheld from the pay of most employees. Y our pay includes your regular pay, bonuses, commissions, and vacation allowances.
It also includes reimbursements and other expense allowances paid under a nonaccountable
plan. See Supplemental Wages, later, for more
information about reimbursements and allowances paid under a nonaccountable plan.
If your income is low enough that you won’t
have to pay income tax for the year, you may be
exempt from withholding. This is explained under Exemption From Withholding, later.
Y ou can ask your employer to withhold income tax from noncash wages and other wages
not subject to withholding. If your employer
doesn’t agree to withhold tax, or if not enough is
withheld, you may have to pay estimated tax, as
discussed later under Estimated T ax for 2026.
Military retirees.  Military retirement pay is
treated in the same manner as regular pay for
income tax withholding purposes, even though
it is treated as a pension or annuity for other tax
purposes.
Household workers.  If you are a household
worker, you can ask your employer to withhold
income tax from your pay. A household worker
is an employee who performs household work
in a private home, local college club, or local fraternity or sorority chapter.
T ax is withheld only if you want it withheld
and your employer agrees to withhold it. If you
don’t have enough income tax withheld, you
may have to pay estimated tax, as discussed
later under Estimated T ax for 2026.
Farmworkers. Generally, income tax is withheld from your cash wages for work on a farm
unless your employer:
• Pays you cash wages of less than $150
during the year, and
• Has expenditures for agricultural labor totaling less than $2,500 during the year.
Differential wage payments.  When employees are on leave from employment for military
duty, some employers make up the difference
Page 39 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax 37

[PAGE 40]
between the military pay and civilian pay. Payments to an employee who is on active duty for
a period of more than 30 days will be subject to
income tax withholding, but not subject to social
security, Medicare, or federal unemployment
(FUTA) tax withholding. The wages and withholding will be reported on Form W -2, Wage
and T ax Statement.
Determining Amount of Tax
Withheld Using Form W-4
The amount of income tax your employer withholds from your regular pay depends on the following two things.
• The amount you earn in each payroll period.
• The information you give your employer on
Form W-4.
Form W-4 includes steps to help you figure
your withholding. Complete Steps 2 through 4
only if they apply to you.
• Step 1. Enter your personal information including your filing status.
• Step 2. Complete this step if you have
more than one job at the same time or are
married filing jointly and you and your
spouse both work.
• Step 3. Complete this step if you claim dependents and other credits.
• Step 4. Complete this optional step to
make other adjustments.
—Other income
—Deductions
—Extra withholding
New Job
When you start a new job, you must fill out Form
W-4 and give it to your employer. Y our employer
should have copies of the form. If you need to
change the information later, you must fill out a
new form.
If you work only part of the year (for example, you start working after the beginning of the
year), too much tax may be withheld. Y ou may
be able to avoid overwithholding if your employer agrees to use the part -year method. See
Part-Y ear Method in chapter 1 of Pub. 505 for
more information.
Employee also receiving pension income.
If you receive pension or annuity income and
begin a new job, you will need to file Form W -4
with your new employer. However, you can
choose to split your withholding between your
pension and job in any manner.
Changing Your Withholding
During the year, changes may occur to your
marital status, adjustments, deductions, or
credits you expect to claim on your tax return.
When this happens, you may need to give your
employer a new Form W-4 to change your withholding status.
If a change in personal circumstances reduces the amount of withholding you are entitled to claim, you are required to give your employer a new Form W -4 within 10 days after the
change occurs.
Changing your withholding for 2027.  If
events in 2026 will change the amount of withholding you should claim for 2027, you must
give your employer a new Form W-4 by December 1, 2026. If the event occurs in December
2026, submit a new Form W-4 within 10 days.
Checking Your Withholding
After you have given your employer a Form
W-4, you can check to see whether the amount
of tax withheld from your pay is too little or too
much. If too much or too little tax is being withheld, you should give your employer a new
Form W -4 to change your withholding. Y ou
should try to have your withholding match your
actual tax liability. If not enough tax is withheld,
you will owe tax at the end of the year and may
have to pay interest and a penalty. If too much
tax is withheld, you will lose the use of that
money until you get your refund. Always check
your withholding if there are personal or financial changes in your life or changes in the law
that might change your tax liability.
Note: Y ou can’t give your employer a payment to cover withholding on salaries and wages for past pay periods or a payment for estimated tax.
Completing Form W-4 and
Worksheets
Form W-4 has worksheets to help you figure the
correct amount of withholding you can claim.
The worksheets are for your own records. Don’t
give them to your employer.
Multiple Jobs Worksheet. If you have income
from more than one job at the same time, or are
married filing jointly and you and your spouse
both work, complete the Multiple Jobs Worksheet on the Form W-4.
If you and your spouse expect to file separate returns, figure your withholding using separate worksheets based on your own individual
income, adjustments, deductions, and credits.
Deductions Worksheet.  Use the Deductions
Worksheet on Form W -4 if you plan to itemize
deductions or claim certain adjustments to income and you want to reduce your withholding.
Also complete this worksheet when you have
changes to these items to see if you need to
change your withholding.
Getting the Right Amount of Tax
Withheld
In most situations, the tax withheld from your
pay will be close to the tax you figure on your return if you follow these two rules.
• Y ou accurately complete all the Form W-4
worksheets that apply to you.
• Y ou give your employer a new Form W-4
when changes occur.
But, because the worksheets and withholding methods don’t account for all possible situations, you may not be getting the right amount
withheld. This is most likely to happen in the following situations.
• Y ou are married and both you and your
spouse work.
• Y ou have more than one job at a time.
• Y ou have nonwage income, such as interest, dividends, alimony, unemployment
compensation, or self-employment income.
• Y ou will owe additional amounts with your
return, such as self-employment tax.
• Y our withholding is based on obsolete
Form W-4 information for a substantial part
of the year.
• Y ou work only part of the year.
• Y ou change the amount of your withholding
during the year.
• Y ou are subject to Additional Medicare T ax
or Net Investment Income T ax (NIIT). If you
anticipate liability for Additional Medicare
T ax or NIIT , you may request that your employer withhold an additional amount of income tax withholding on Form W-4.
Cumulative wage method.  If you change the
amount of your withholding during the year, too
much or too little tax may have been withheld
for the period before you made the change. Y ou
may be able to compensate for this if your employer agrees to use the cumulative wage withholding method for the rest of the year. Y ou
must ask your employer in writing to use this
method.
T o be eligible, you must have been paid for
the same kind of payroll period (weekly, biweekly, etc.) since the beginning of the year.
Publication 505
T o make sure you are getting the right amount
of tax withheld, see Pub. 505. It will help you
compare the total tax to be withheld during the
year with the tax you can expect to figure on
your return. It will also help you determine how
much, if any, additional withholding is needed
each payday to avoid owing tax when you file
your return. If you don’t have enough tax withheld, you may have to pay estimated tax, as explained under Estimated T ax for 2026, later.
Y ou can use the T ax Withholding Estimator at IRS.gov/W4App, instead of
Pub. 505 or the worksheets included
with Form W-4, to determine whether you need
to have your withholding increased or decreased.
Rules Your Employer Must Follow
It may be helpful for you to know some of the
withholding rules your employer must follow.
These rules can affect how to fill out your Form
W-4 and how to handle problems that may
arise.
New Form W -4. When you start a new job,
your employer should have you complete a
Form W -4. Beginning with your first payday,
your employer will use the information you give
on the form to figure your withholding.
If you later fill out a new Form W -4, your employer can put it into effect as soon as possible.
The deadline for putting it into effect is the start
of the first payroll period ending 30 or more
days after you turn it in.
TIP
Page 40 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
38 Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 41]
No Form W -4. If you don’t give your employer
a completed Form W -4, your employer must
withhold at the highest rate, as if you were single.
Repaying withheld tax.  If you find you are
having too much tax withheld because you
didn’t claim the correct amount of withholding
you are entitled to, you should give your employer a new Form W-4. Y our employer can’t repay any of the tax previously withheld. Instead,
claim the full amount withheld when you file
your tax return.
However, if your employer has withheld
more than the correct amount of tax for the
Form W-4 you have in effect, you don’t have to
fill out a new Form W-4 to have your withholding
lowered to the correct amount. Y our employer
can repay the amount that was withheld incorrectly. If you aren’t repaid, your Form W -2 will
reflect the full amount actually withheld, which
you would claim when you file your tax return.
Exemption From Withholding
If you claim exemption from withholding, your
employer won’t withhold federal income tax
from your wages. The exemption applies only to
income tax, not to social security, Medicare, or
FUTA tax withholding.
Y ou can claim exemption from withholding
for 2026 only if both of the following situations
apply.
• For 2025, you had a right to a refund of all
federal income tax withheld because you
had no tax liability.
• For 2026, you expect a refund of all federal
income tax withheld because you expect to
have no tax liability.
Students. If you are a student, you aren’t automatically exempt. See chapter 1 to find out if
you must file a return. If you work only part time
or only during the summer, you may qualify for
exemption from withholding.
Age 65 or older or blind.  If you are 65 or
older or blind, use Worksheet 1 -1 or 1 -2 in
chapter 1 of Pub. 505 to help you decide if you
qualify for exemption from withholding. Don’t
use either worksheet if you will itemize deductions or claim tax credits on your 2026 return.
Instead, see Itemizing deductions or claiming
credits in chapter 1 of Pub. 505.
Eligible for a bonus deduction?  If you are
age 65 or older, you may be eligible for a $6,000
($12,000 if married filing jointly) bonus deduction for tax years beginning in 2025 through tax
years beginning no later than 2028. For more information, see Pub. 505.
Claiming exemption from withholding.  T o
claim exemption, you must give your employer a
Form W -4. Write “Exempt” on the form in the
space below Step 4(c) and complete the applicable steps of the form.
If you claim exemption, but later your situation changes so that you will have to pay income tax after all, you must file a new Form W-4
within 10 days after the change. If you claim exemption in 2026, but you expect to owe income
tax for 2027, you must file a new Form W -4 by
December 1, 2026.
Y our claim of exempt status may be reviewed by the IRS.
An exemption is good for only 1 year. Y ou
must generally give your employer a new Form
W-4 by February 15 each year to continue your
exemption.
Supplemental Wages
Supplemental wages include bonuses, certain
tips, commissions, overtime pay, vacation allowances, certain sick pay, and expense allowances under certain plans. The payer can figure
withholding on supplemental wages using the
same method used for your regular wages.
However, if these payments are identified separately from your regular wages, your employer
or other payer of supplemental wages can withhold income tax from these wages at a flat rate.
Certain qualified tips and overtime pay
can be deducted from your taxable income beginning in 2025 through 2028.
See Pub. 531, Reporting Tip Income, and Pub.
505 for more information.
Expense allowances.  Reimbursements or
other expense allowances paid by your employer under a nonaccountable plan are treated
as supplemental wages.
Reimbursements or other expense allowances paid under an accountable plan that are
more than your proven expenses are treated as
paid under a nonaccountable plan if you don’t
return the excess payments within a reasonable
period of time.
For more information about accountable and
nonaccountable expense allowance plans, see
Pub. 505.
Penalties
Y ou may have to pay a penalty of $500 if both of
the following apply.
• Y ou make statements or claim withholding
on your Form W-4 that reduce the amount
of tax withheld.
• Y ou have no reasonable basis for those
statements or withholding at the time you
prepare your Form W-4.
There is also a criminal penalty for willfully
supplying false or fraudulent information on your
Form W-4 or for willfully failing to supply information that would increase the amount withheld. The penalty upon conviction can be either
a fine of up to $1,000 or imprisonment for up to
1 year, or both.
These penalties will apply if you deliberately
and knowingly falsify your Form W -4 in an attempt to reduce or eliminate the proper withholding of taxes. A simple error or an honest
mistake won’t result in one of these penalties.
Tips
The tips you receive while working on your job
are considered part of your pay. Y ou must include your tips on your tax return on the same
line as your regular pay. However, tax isn’t withheld directly from tip income, as it is from your
regular pay. Nevertheless, your employer will
take into account the tips you report when figuring how much to withhold from your regular pay.
CAUTION
!
For more information on reporting your tips
to your employer and on the withholding rules
for tip income, see Pub. 531.
How employer figures amount to withhold.
The tips you report to your employer are counted as part of your income for the month you report them. Y our employer can figure your withholding in either of the following two ways.
• By withholding at the regular rate on the
sum of your pay plus your reported tips.
• By withholding at the regular rate on your
pay plus a percentage of your reported
tips.
Not enough pay to cover taxes.  If your regular pay isn’t enough for your employer to withhold all the tax (including income tax and social
security and Medicare taxes (or the equivalent
railroad retirement tax)) due on your pay plus
your tips, you can give your employer money to
cover the shortage. See Pub. 531 for more information.
Allocated tips.  Y our employer shouldn’t withhold income tax, Medicare tax, social security
tax, or railroad retirement tax on any allocated
tips. Withholding is based only on your pay plus
your reported tips. Y our employer should refund
to you any incorrectly withheld tax. See Pub.
531 for more information.
Taxable Fringe Benefits
The value of certain noncash fringe benefits you
receive from your employer is considered part
of your pay. Y our employer must generally withhold income tax on these benefits from your
regular pay.
For information on fringe benefits, see
Fringe Benefits under Employee Compensation
in chapter 5.
Although the value of your personal use of
an employer-provided car, truck, or other highway motor vehicle is taxable, your employer can
choose not to withhold income tax on that
amount. Y our employer must notify you if this
choice is made.
For more information on withholding on taxable fringe benefits, see chapter 1 of Pub. 505.
Sick Pay
Sick pay is a payment to you to replace your
regular wages while you are temporarily absent
from work due to sickness or personal injury. T o
qualify as sick pay, it must be paid under a plan
to which your employer is a party.
If you receive sick pay from your employer or
an agent of your employer, income tax must be
withheld. An agent who doesn’t pay regular wages to you may choose to withhold income tax
at a flat rate.
However, if you receive sick pay from a third
party who isn’t acting as an agent of your employer, income tax will be withheld only if you
choose to have it withheld. See Form W -4S,
later.
If you receive payments under a plan in
which your employer doesn’t participate (such
as an accident or health plan where you paid all
the premiums), the payments aren’t sick pay
and usually aren’t taxable.
Page 41 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax 39

[PAGE 42]
Union agreements. If you receive sick pay under a collective bargaining agreement between
your union and your employer, the agreement
may determine the amount of income tax withholding. See your union representative or your
employer for more information.
Form W-4S. If you choose to have income tax
withheld from sick pay paid by a third party,
such as an insurance company, you must fill out
Form W-4S. Its instructions contain a worksheet
you can use to figure the amount you want withheld. They also explain restrictions that may apply.
Give the completed form to the payer of your
sick pay. The payer must withhold according to
your directions on the form.
Estimated tax. If you don’t request withholding
on Form W -4S, or if you don’t have enough tax
withheld, you may have to make estimated tax
payments. If you don’t pay enough tax, either
through estimated tax or withholding, or a combination of both, you may have to pay a penalty.
See Underpayment Penalty for 2025  at the end
of this chapter.
Pensions and Annuities
Income tax will usually be withheld from your
pension or annuity distributions unless you
choose not to have it withheld. This rule applies
to distributions from:
• A traditional individual retirement arrangement (IRA);
• A life insurance company under an endowment, annuity, or life insurance contract;
• A pension, annuity, or profit-sharing plan;
• A stock bonus plan; and
• Any other plan that defers the time you receive compensation.
The amount withheld depends on whether
you receive payments spread out over more
than 1 year (periodic payments), within 1 year
(nonperiodic payments), or as an eligible rollover distribution (ERD). Income tax withholding
from an ERD is mandatory.
More information.  For more information on
withholding on pensions and annuities, including a discussion of Form W -4P , see Pensions
and Annuities in chapter 1 of Pub. 505.
Gambling Winnings
Income tax is withheld at a flat 24% rate from
certain kinds of gambling winnings.
Gambling winnings of more than $5,000
from the following sources are subject to income tax withholding.
• Any sweepstakes; wagering pool, including
payments made to winners of poker tournaments; or lottery.
• Any other wager, if the proceeds are at
least 300 times the amount of the bet.
It doesn’t matter whether your winnings are paid
in cash, in property, or as an annuity. Winnings
not paid in cash are taken into account at their
fair market value.
Exception.  Gambling winnings from bingo,
keno, and slot machines generally aren’t subject to income tax withholding. However, you
may need to provide the payer with a social security number (SSN) to avoid withholding. See
Backup withholding on gambling winnings in
chapter 1 of Pub. 505. If you receive gambling
winnings not subject to withholding, you may
need to pay estimated tax. See Estimated T ax
for 2026, later.
If you don’t pay enough tax, either through
withholding or estimated tax, or a combination
of both, you may have to pay a penalty. See Underpayment Penalty for 2025  at the end of this
chapter.
Form W -2G. If a payer withholds income tax
from your gambling winnings, you should receive a Form W -2G, Certain Gambling Winnings, showing the amount you won and the
amount withheld. Report the tax withheld on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 25c.
Unemployment
Compensation
Y ou can choose to have income tax withheld
from unemployment compensation. T o make
this choice, fill out Form W -4V (or a similar form
provided by the payer) and give it to the payer.
All unemployment compensation is taxable.
If you don’t have income tax withheld, you may
have to pay estimated tax. See Estimated T ax
for 2026, later.
If you don’t pay enough tax, either through
withholding or estimated tax, or a combination
of both, you may have to pay a penalty. See Underpayment Penalty for 2025  at the end of this
chapter.
Federal Payments
Y ou can choose to have income tax withheld
from certain federal payments you receive.
These payments are the following.
1. Social security benefits.
2. Tier 1 railroad retirement benefits.
3. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC)
loans you choose to include in your gross
income.
4. Payments under the Agricultural Act of
1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.), as amended, or title II of the Disaster Assistance
Act of 1988, that are treated as insurance
proceeds and that you receive because:
a. Y our crops were destroyed or damaged by drought, flood, or any other
natural disaster; or
b. Y ou were unable to plant crops because of a natural disaster described
in (a).
5. Any other payment under federal law as
determined by the Secretary.
T o make this choice, fill out Form W-4V (or a
similar form provided by the payer) and give it to
the payer.
If you don’t choose to have income tax withheld, you may have to pay estimated tax. See
Estimated T ax for 2026, later.
If you don’t pay enough tax, either through
withholding or estimated tax, or a combination
of both, you may have to pay a penalty. See Underpayment Penalty for 2025  at the end of this
chapter.
More information. For more information about
the tax treatment of social security and railroad
retirement benefits, see chapter 7. See Pub.
225, Farmer’s T ax Guide, for information about
the tax treatment of CCC loans or crop disaster
payments.
Backup Withholding
Banks or other businesses that pay you certain
kinds of income must file an information return
(Form 1099) with the IRS. The information return shows how much you were paid during the
year. It also includes your name and taxpayer
identification number (TIN). TINs are explained
in chapter 1 under Social Security Number
(SSN).
These payments generally aren’t subject to
withholding. However, “backup” withholding is
required in certain situations. Backup withholding can apply to most kinds of payments that
are reported on Form 1099.
The payer must withhold at a flat 24% rate in
the following situations.
• Y ou don’t give the payer your TIN in the required manner.
• The IRS notifies the payer that the TIN you
gave is incorrect.
• Y ou are required, but fail, to certify that you
aren’t subject to backup withholding.
• The IRS notifies the payer to start withholding on interest or dividends because you
have underreported interest or dividends
on your income tax return. The IRS will do
this only after it has mailed you four notices.
Go to IRS.gov/Businesses/SmallBusinesses-Self-Employed/BackupWithholding for more information on kinds of
payments subject to backup withholding.
Penalties. There are civil and criminal penalties for giving false information to avoid backup
withholding. The civil penalty is $500. The criminal penalty, upon conviction, is a fine of up to
$1,000 or imprisonment of up to 1 year, or both.
Estimated Tax for 2026
Estimated tax is the method used to pay tax on
income that isn’t subject to withholding. This includes income from self -employment, interest,
dividends, alimony, rent, gains from the sale of
assets, prizes, and awards. Y ou may also have
to pay estimated tax if the amount of income tax
being withheld from your salary, pension, or
other income isn’t enough.
Estimated tax is used to pay both income
tax and self -employment tax, as well as other
taxes and amounts reported on your tax return.
If you don’t pay enough tax, either through withholding or estimated tax, or a combination of
both, you may have to pay a penalty. If you don’t
pay enough by the due date of each payment
period (see When T o Pay Estimated T ax, later),
you may be charged a penalty even if you are
Page 42 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
40 Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 43]
due a refund when you file your tax return. For
information on when the penalty applies, see
Underpayment Penalty for 2025  at the end of
this chapter.
Who Doesn’t Have To Pay
Estimated Tax
If you receive salaries or wages, you can avoid
having to pay estimated tax by asking your employer to take more tax out of your earnings. T o
do this, give a new Form W -4 to your employer.
See chapter 1 of Pub. 505.
Estimated tax not required. Y ou don’t have to
pay estimated tax for 2026 if you meet all three
of the following conditions.
• Y ou had no tax liability for 2025.
• Y ou were a U.S. citizen or resident alien for
the whole year.
• Y our 2025 tax year covered a 12-month period.
Y ou had no tax liability for 2025 if your total
tax was zero or you didn’t have to file an income
tax return. For the definition of “total tax” for
2025, see chapter 2 of Pub. 505.
Who Must Pay Estimated
Tax
If you owe additional tax for 2025, you may have
to pay estimated tax for 2026.
Y ou can use the following general rule as a
guide during the year to see if you will have
enough withholding, or if you should increase
your withholding or make estimated tax
payments.
General rule. In most cases, you must pay estimated tax for 2026 if both of the following apply.
1. Y ou expect to owe at least $1,000 in tax for
2026, after subtracting your withholding
and refundable credits.
2. Y ou expect your withholding plus your refundable credits to be less than the
smaller of:
a. 90% of the tax to be shown on your
2026 tax return; or
b. 100% of the tax shown on your 2025
tax return (but see Special rules for
farmers, fishers, and higher income
taxpayers, later). Y our 2025 tax return
must cover all 12 months.
If the result from using the general rule
above suggests that you won’t have
enough withholding, complete the
2026 Estimated T ax Worksheet in Pub. 505 for a
more accurate calculation.
Special rules for farmers, fishers, and
higher income taxpayers.  If at least
two-thirds of your gross income for tax year
2025 or 2026 is from farming or fishing, substitute 66 2/3% for 90% in (2a) under the General
rule, earlier. If your AGI for 2025 was more than
$150,000 ($75,000 if your filing status for 2026
is married filing a separate return), substitute
110% for 100% in (2b) under General rule, earlier. See Figure 4-A and chapter 2 of Pub. 505
for more information.
Aliens.  Resident and nonresident aliens may
also have to pay estimated tax. Resident aliens
should follow the rules in this chapter unless noted otherwise. Nonresident aliens should get
CAUTION
!
Form 1040 -ES (NR), U.S. Estimated T ax for
Nonresident Alien Individuals.
Y ou are an alien if you aren’t a citizen or national of the United States. Y ou are a resident
alien if you either have a green card or meet the
substantial presence test. For more information
about the substantial presence test, see Pub.
519, U.S. T ax Guide for Aliens.
Married taxpayers. If you qualify to make joint
estimated tax payments, apply the rules discussed here to your joint estimated income.
Y ou and your spouse can make joint estimated tax payments even if you aren’t living together.
However, you and your spouse can’t make
joint estimated tax payments if:
• Y ou are legally separated under a decree
of divorce or separate maintenance,
• Y ou and your spouse have different tax
years, or
• Either spouse is a nonresident alien (unless that spouse elected to be treated as a
resident alien for tax purposes (see chapter 1 of Pub. 519)).
If you and your spouse can’t make estimated
tax payments, apply these rules to your separate estimated income. Making joint or separate
estimated tax payments won’t affect your choice
of filing a joint tax return or separate returns for
2026.
2025 separate returns and 2026 joint return. If you plan to file a joint return with your
spouse for 2026 but you filed separate returns
for 2025, your 2025 tax is the total of the tax
shown on your separate returns. Y ou filed a
separate return if you filed as single, head of
household, or married filing separately.
Figure 4-A. Do You Have To Pay Estimated Tax?
Start Here
No
Yes
Yes
NoNo
Yes
Will you owe $1,000 or more
for 2026 after subtracting
income tax withholding and
refundable credits* from your
total tax? (Don’t subtract any
estimated tax payments.)
Will your income tax
withholding and refundable
credits* be at least 90%
(662/3% for farmers and /f_ishers)
of the tax shown on your 2026
tax return?
Will your income tax
withholding and refundable
credits* be at least 100%** of
the tax shown on your 2025
tax return?
Note: Your 2025 return must
have covered a 12-month
period.
You are NOT required to pay
estimated tax.
** 110% if less than two-thirds of your gross income for 2025 and 2026 is from farming or /f_ishing and your 2025
   adjusted gross income was more than $150,000 ($75,000 if your /f_iling status for 2026 is married /f_iling a separate return).
You MUST make estimated
tax payment(s) by the
required due date(s).
See When To Pay Estimated Tax.
* Use the refundable credits shown on the 2026 Estimated Tax Worksheet in Pub. 505.
Page 43 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax 41

[PAGE 44]
2025 joint return and 2026 separate returns. If you plan to file a separate return for
2026 but you filed a joint return for 2025, your
2025 tax is your share of the tax on the joint return. Y ou file a separate return if you file as single, head of household, or married filing separately.
T o figure your share of the tax on the joint return, first figure the tax both you and your
spouse would have paid had you filed separate
returns for 2025 using the same filing status as
for 2026. Then, multiply the tax on the joint return by the following fraction.
The tax you would have paid had
you filed a separate return
The total tax you and your
spouse would have paid had
you filed separate returns
Example. Owen and Sophia filed a joint return for 2025 showing taxable income of
$48,500 and tax of $5,346. Of the $48,500 taxable income, $40,100 was Owen’s and the rest
was Sophia’s. For 2026, they plan to file married
filing separately. Owen figures tax on the 2025
joint return as follows.
T ax on $40,100 based on a
separate return ....... $4,577
T ax on $8,400 based on a
separate return .......  843
T otal ............... $5,420
Owen’s percentage of total
($4,577 ÷ $5,420) ...... 84.4465%
Owen’s share of tax on joint
return
($5,346 × 84.4465%) .... $4,514
How To Figure Estimated
Tax
T o figure your estimated tax, you must figure
your expected adjusted gross income (AGI),
taxable income, taxes, deductions, and credits
for the year.
When figuring your 2026 estimated tax, it
may be helpful to use your income, deductions,
and credits for 2025 as a starting point. Use
your 2025 federal tax return as a guide. Y ou can
use Form 1040 -ES and Pub. 505 to figure your
estimated tax. Nonresident aliens use Form
1040-ES (NR) and Pub. 505 to figure estimated
tax (see chapter 8 of Pub. 519 for more information).
Y ou must make adjustments both for
changes in your own situation and for recent
changes in the tax law. For a discussion of
these changes, go to IRS.gov.
For more complete information on how to
figure your estimated tax for 2026, see chapter 2 of Pub. 505.
When To Pay Estimated
Tax
For estimated tax purposes, the tax year is divided into four payment periods. Each period has
a specific payment due date. If you don’t pay
enough tax by the due date of each payment
period, you may be charged a penalty even if
you are due a refund when you file your income
tax return. The payment periods and due dates
for estimated tax payments are shown next.
For the period: Due date:*
Jan. 1–March 31 ...... April 15
April 1–May 31 ....... June 15
June 1–August 31 ..... Sept. 15
Sept. 1–Dec. 31 ...... Jan. 15, next year
.
* See Saturday, Sunday, holiday rule and
January payment.
Saturday, Sunday, holiday rule.  If the due
date for an estimated tax payment falls on a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the payment
will be on time if you make it on the next day
that isn’t a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
January payment.  If you file your 2026 Form
1040 or 1040-SR by February 1, 2027, and pay
the rest of the tax you owe, you don’t need to
make the payment due on January 15, 2027.
Fiscal-year taxpayers. If your tax year doesn’t
start on January 1, see the Form 1040 -ES instructions for your payment due dates.
When To Start
Y ou don’t have to make estimated tax payments
until you have income on which you will owe income tax. If you have income subject to estimated tax during the first payment period, you
must make your first payment by the due date
for the first payment period. Y ou can pay all your
estimated tax at that time, or you can pay it in
installments. If you choose to pay in installments, make your first payment by the due date
for the first payment period. Make your remaining installment payments by the due dates for
the later periods.
No income subject to estimated tax during
first period.  If you don’t have income subject
to estimated tax until a later payment period,
you must make your first payment by the due
date for that period. Y ou can pay your entire estimated tax by the due date for that period or
you can pay it in installments by the due date for
that period and the due dates for the remaining
periods.
General Due Dates for
Estimated Tax
Installment Payments
T able 4-1.
If you first
have income
on which you
must pay
estimated tax:
Make
installments
by:*
Make later
installments
by:*
Before April 1 April 15 June 15
Sept. 15
Jan. 15, next
year
April 1–May 31 June 15 Sept. 15
Jan. 15, next
year
June 1–Aug. 31 Sept. 15 Jan. 15, next
year
After Aug. 31 Jan. 15, next
year
(None)
* See Saturday, Sunday, holiday rule and January
payment.
How much to pay to avoid a penalty.  T o determine how much you should pay by each payment due date, see How T o Figure Each Payment next.
How To Figure Each
Payment
Y ou should pay enough estimated tax by the
due date of each payment period to avoid a
penalty for that period. Y ou can figure your required payment for each period by using either
the regular installment method or the annualized income installment method. These methods are described in chapter 2 of Pub. 505. If
you don’t pay enough during each payment period, you may be charged a penalty even if you
are due a refund when you file your tax return.
If the earlier discussion under No income
subject to estimated tax during first period  or
the later discussion under Change in estimated
tax applies to you, you may benefit from reading
Annualized Income Installment Method in chapter 2 of Pub. 505 for information on how to avoid
a penalty.
Underpayment penalty. Under the regular installment method, if your estimated tax payment
for any period is less than one-fourth of your estimated tax, you may be charged a penalty for
underpayment of estimated tax for that period
when you file your tax return. Under the annualized income installment method, your estimated
tax payments vary with your income, but the
amount required must be paid each period. See
Instructions for Form 2210 for more information.
Change in estimated tax.  After you make an
estimated tax payment, changes in your income, adjustments, deductions, or credits may
make it necessary for you to refigure your estimated tax. Pay the unpaid balance of your
amended estimated tax by the next payment
due date after the change or in installments by
that date and the due dates for the remaining
payment periods.
Page 44 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
42 Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 45]
Estimated Tax Payments Not
Required
Y ou don’t have to pay estimated tax if your withholding in each payment period is at least as
much as:
• One-fourth of your required annual payment, or
• Y our required annualized income installment for that period.
Y ou also don’t have to pay estimated tax if you
will pay enough through withholding to keep the
amount you owe with your return under $1,000.
How To Pay Estimated Tax
There are several ways to pay estimated tax.
• Credit an overpayment on your 2025 return
to your 2026 estimated tax.
• Pay by direct transfer from your bank account, or pay by debit or credit card using a
pay-by-phone system or the Internet.
• Send in your payment (check or money order) with a payment voucher from Form
1040-ES.
Credit an Overpayment
If you show an overpayment of tax after completing your Form 1040 or 1040 -SR for 2025,
you can apply part or all of it to your estimated
tax for 2026. On line 36 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR, enter the amount you want credited to
your estimated tax rather than refunded. T ake
the amount you have credited into account
when figuring your estimated tax payments.
Y ou can’t have any of the amount you credited to your estimated tax refunded to you until
you file your tax return for the following year. Y ou
also can’t use that overpayment in any other
way.
Pay Online
The IRS offers an electronic payment option
that is right for you. Paying online is convenient,
secure, and helps make sure we get your payments on time. T o pay your taxes online or for
more information, go to IRS.gov/Payments. Y ou
can pay using any of the following methods.
• IRS Direct Pay. For online transfers directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you, go to IRS.gov/
DirectPay.
• Pay by card or digital wallet. T o pay by
debit or credit card or digital wallet, go to
IRS.gov/PayByCard. A fee is charged by
these service providers. Y ou can also pay
by phone with a debit or credit card. See
Debit or credit card under Pay by Phone,
later.
• Electronic funds withdrawal (EFW).
This is an integrated e-file/e-pay option offered only when filing your federal taxes
electronically using tax preparation software, through a tax professional, or
through the IRS at IRS.gov/EFW.
• Online payment agreement. If you can’t
pay in full by the due date of your tax return, you can apply for an online monthly
installment agreement at IRS.gov/OPA.
Once you complete the online process,
you will receive immediate notification of
whether your agreement has been approved. A user fee is charged.
• IRS2Go. This is the mobile application of
the IRS. Y ou can access IRS Direct Pay or
pay by card by downloading the application.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment
System (EFTPS)
This system allows you to pay your taxes online
or by phone directly from your checking or savings account. There is no fee for this service.
Y ou must be enrolled either online or have an
enrollment form mailed to you. See EFTPS under Pay by Phone, later.
Pay by Phone
Paying by phone is another safe and secure
method of paying electronically. Use one of the
following methods: (1) call one of the debit or
credit card providers, or (2) use the EFTPS to
pay directly from your checking or savings account.
Debit or credit card.  Call one of our service
providers. Each charges a fee that varies by
provider, card type, and payment amount.
Link2Gov Corporation
888-PAY-1040TM (888-729-1040)
PAY1040.com
ACI Payments, Inc. (formerly Official
Payments)
888-UPAY-TAXTM (888-872-9829)
fed.acipayonline.com
EFTPS.  T o get more information about EFTPS
or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov or call
800-555-4477. T o contact EFTPS using T elecommunications Relay Services (TRS) for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a
speech disability, dial 711 and then provide the
TRS assistant the 800 -555-4477 number or
800-733-4829. Additional information about
EFTPS is also available in Pub. 966.
Pay by Mobile Device
T o pay through your mobile device, download
the IRS2Go application.
Pay by Cash
Cash is an in-person payment option for individuals provided through retail partners. T o make a
cash payment, you must choose a payment processor online with ACI Payments, Inc. at
fed.acipayonline.com or Pay1040.com, our official payment provider. For more information, go
to IRS.gov/PayWithCash. Don’t send cash payments through the mail.
Pay by Check or Money Order
Using the Estimated Tax
Payment Voucher
Before submitting a payment through the mail
using the estimated tax payment voucher,
please consider alternative methods. One of
our safe, quick, and easy electronic payment
options might be right for you.
If you choose to mail in your payment, each
payment of estimated tax by check or money order must be accompanied by a payment
voucher from Form 1040-ES.
During 2025, if you:
• Made at least one estimated tax payment
but not by electronic means,
• Didn’t use software or a paid preparer to
prepare or file your return,
then you should receive a copy of the 2026
Form 1040-ES with payment vouchers.
The enclosed payment vouchers will be preprinted with your name, address, and SSN. Using the preprinted vouchers will speed processing, reduce the chance of error, and help save
processing costs.
Use the window envelopes that came with
your Form 1040 -ES package. If you use your
own envelopes, make sure you mail your payment vouchers to the address shown in the
Form 1040-ES instructions for the place where
you live.
No checks of $100 million or more accepted.  The IRS can’t accept a single check (including a cashier’s check) for amounts of
$100,000,000 ($100 million) or more. If you are
sending $100 million or more by check, you’ll
need to spread the payment over two or more
checks with each check made out for an
amount less than $100 million. This limit doesn’t
apply to other methods of payment (such as
electronic payments). Consider a method of
payment other than check if the amount of the
payment is over $100 million.
Note: These criteria can change without notice. If you don’t receive a Form 1040 -ES package and you are required to make an estimated
tax payment, you should go to IRS.gov/
Form1040ES and print a copy of Form 1040 -ES
that includes four blank payment vouchers.
Complete one of these and make your payment
timely to avoid penalties for paying late.
Don’t use the address shown in the Instructions for Form 1040 for your estimated tax payments.
If you didn’t pay estimated tax last year, you
can order Form 1040 -ES from the IRS (see the
inside back cover of this publication) or download it from IRS.gov. Follow the instructions to
make sure you use the vouchers correctly.
Joint estimated tax payments.  If you file a
joint return and are making joint estimated tax
payments, enter the names and SSNs on the
payment vouchers in the same order as they will
appear on the joint return.
Change of address. Y ou must notify the IRS if
you are making estimated tax payments and
you changed your address during the year.
Complete Form 8822, Change of Address, and
mail it to the address shown in the instructions
for that form.
CAUTION
!
Page 45 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax 43

[PAGE 46]
Credit for Withholding
and Estimated Tax for
2025
When you file your 2025 income tax return, take
credit for all the income tax and excess social
security or railroad retirement tax withheld from
your salary, wages, pensions, etc. Also take
credit for the estimated tax you paid for 2025.
These credits are subtracted from your total tax.
Because these credits are refundable, you
should file a return and claim these credits,
even if you don’t owe tax.
Two or more employers.  If you had two or
more employers in 2025 and were paid wages
of more than $176,100, too much social security or tier 1 railroad retirement tax may have
been withheld from your pay. Y ou may be able
to claim the excess as a credit against your income tax when you file your return. See the Instructions for Form 1040 for more information.
Withholding
If you had income tax withheld during 2025, you
should be sent a statement by February 2,
2026, showing your income and the tax withheld. Depending on the source of your income,
you should receive:
• Form W-2;
• Form W-2G; or
• A form in the 1099 series.
Forms W-2 and W -2G. If you file a paper return, always file Form W -2 with your income tax
return. File Form W-2G with your return only if it
shows any federal income tax withheld from
your winnings.
Y ou should get at least two copies of each
form. If you file a paper return, attach one copy
to the front of your federal income tax return.
Keep one copy for your records. Y ou should
also receive copies to file with your state and local returns.
Form W-2
Y our employer is required to provide or send
Form W-2 to you no later than February 2, 2026.
Y ou should receive a separate Form W -2 from
each employer you worked for.
If you stopped working before the end of
2025, your employer could have given you your
Form W-2 at any time after you stopped working. However, your employer must provide or
send it to you by February 2, 2026.
If you ask for the form, your employer must
send it to you within 30 days after receiving your
written request or within 30 days after your final
wage payment, whichever is later.
If you haven’t received your Form W -2 by
February 2, you should ask your employer for it.
If you don’t receive it by early February, call the
IRS.
Form W -2 shows your total pay and other
compensation and the income tax, social security tax, and Medicare tax that was withheld during the year. Include the federal income tax
withheld (as shown in box 2 of Form W -2) on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 25a.
In addition, Form W -2 is used to report any
taxable sick pay you received and any income
tax withheld from your sick pay.
Form W-2G
If you had gambling winnings in 2025, the payer
may have withheld income tax. If tax was withheld, the payer will give you a Form W -2G
showing the amount you won and the amount of
tax withheld.
Report the amounts you won on Schedule 1
(Form 1040). T ake credit for the tax withheld on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 25c.
The 1099 Series
Most forms in the 1099 series aren’t filed with
your return. These forms should be furnished to
you by February 2, 2026 (or, for Form 1099 -B,
Form 1099 -DA, Form 1099 -S, and certain
Forms 1099-MISC, by February 17, 2026). Unless instructed to file any of these forms with
your return, keep them for your records. There
are several different forms in this series, which
are not listed. See the instructions for the specific Form 1099 for more information.
Form 1099-R. Attach Form 1099-R to your paper return if box 4 shows federal income tax
withheld. Include the amount withheld in the total on line 25b of Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Backup withholding.  If you were subject to
backup withholding on income you received
during 2025, include the amount withheld, as
shown on your Form 1099, in the total on
line 25b of Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Form Not Correct
If you receive a form with incorrect information
on it, you should ask the payer for a corrected
form. Call the telephone number or write to the
address given for the payer on the form. The
corrected Form W-2G or Form 1099 you receive
will have an “X” in the “CORRECTED” box at the
top of the form. A special form, Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and T ax Statement, is used to correct a Form W-2.
In certain situations, you will receive two
forms in place of the original incorrect form. This
will happen when your TIN is wrong or missing,
your name and address are wrong, or you received the wrong type of form (for example, a
Form 1099-DIV , Dividends and Distributions, instead of a Form 1099 -INT , Interest Income).
One new form you receive will be the same incorrect form or have the same incorrect information, but all money amounts will be zero. This
form will have an “X” in the “CORRECTED” box
at the top of the form. The second new form
should have all the correct information, prepared as though it is the original (the “CORRECTED” box won’t be checked).
Form Received After Filing
If you file your return and you later receive a
form for income that you didn’t include on your
return, you should report the income and take
credit for any income tax withheld by filing Form
1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income T ax
Return.
Separate Returns
If you are married but file a separate return, you
can take credit only for the tax withheld from
your own income. Don’t include any amount
withheld from your spouse’s income. However,
different rules may apply if you live in a community property state.
Community property states are listed in
chapter 1. For more information on these rules,
and some exceptions, see Pub. 555, Community Property.
Estimated Tax
T ake credit for all your estimated tax payments
for 2025 on Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, line 26. Include any overpayment from 2024 that you had
credited to your 2025 estimated tax.
Name changed.  If you changed your name,
and you made estimated tax payments using
your former name, attach a brief statement to
the front of your paper tax return indicating:
• When you made the payments,
• The amount of each payment,
• Y our name when you made the payments,
and
• Y our SSN.
The statement should cover payments you
made jointly with your spouse as well as any
you made separately.
Be sure to report the change to the Social
Security Administration before filing your return.
This prevents delays in processing your return
and issuing any refunds.
Separate Returns
If you and your spouse made separate estimated tax payments for 2025 and you file separate
returns, you can take credit only for your own
payments.
If you made joint estimated tax payments,
you must decide how to divide the payments
between your returns. One of you can claim all
of the estimated tax paid and the other none, or
you can divide it in any other way you agree on.
If you can’t agree, you must divide the payments in proportion to each spouse’s individual
tax as shown on your separate returns for 2025.
Divorced Taxpayers
If you made joint estimated tax payments for
2025, and you were divorced during the year,
either you or your former spouse can claim all of
the joint payments, or you each can claim part
of them. If you can’t agree on how to divide the
payments, you must divide them in proportion to
each spouse’s individual tax as shown on your
separate returns for 2025.
If you claim any of the joint payments on
your tax return, enter your former spouse’s social security number (SSN) in the space provided on the front of Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. If
you divorced and remarried in 2025, enter your
present spouse’s SSN in the space provided on
the front of Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. Also, on the
dotted line next to line 26, enter your former
spouse’s SSN, followed by “DIV .”
Page 46 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
44 Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 47]
Underpayment Penalty
for 2025
If you didn’t pay enough tax, either through withholding or by making timely estimated tax payments, you will have an underpayment of estimated tax and you may have to pay a penalty.
Generally, you won’t have to pay a penalty
for 2025 if any of the following apply.
• The total of your withholding and estimated
tax payments was at least as much as your
2024 tax (or 110% of your 2024 tax if your
AGI was more than $150,000: $75,000 if
your 2025 filing status is married filing separately) and you paid all required estimated tax payments on time.
• The tax balance due on your 2025 return is
no more than 10% of your total 2025 tax,
and you paid all required estimated tax
payments on time.
• Y our total 2025 tax minus your withholding
and refundable credits is less than $1,000.
• Y ou didn’t have a tax liability for 2024 and
your 2024 tax year was 12 months.
• Y ou didn’t have any withholding taxes and
your current-year tax less any household
employment taxes is less than $1,000.
Farmers and fishers.  Special rules apply if
you are a farmer or fisher. See the Instructions
for Form 2210-F for more information.
The IRS can figure the penalty for you.  If
you think you owe the penalty but you don’t
want to figure it yourself when you file your tax
return, you may not have to. Generally, the IRS
will figure the penalty for you and send you a
bill. However, if you think you are able to lower
or eliminate your penalty, you must complete
Form 2210 or Form 2210-F and attach it to your
paper return. See the Instructions for Form
2210 for more information.
Page 47 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax 45

[PAGE 48]
Part Two.
Income and
Adjustments to
Income
The five chapters in this part discuss many kinds of income and
adjustments to income. They explain which income is and isn’t taxed and
discuss some of the adjustments to income that you can make in figuring
your adjusted gross income.
The Form 1040 and 1040-SR schedules that are discussed in these
chapters are:
• Schedule 1, Additional Income and Adjustments to Income;
• Schedule 2, Part II, Other T axes; and
• Schedule 3, Part II, Other Payments and Refundable Credits.
T able V . Other Adjustments to Income
Use this table to find information about other adjustments to income not covered in this part of the publication.
IF you are looking for more information about the
deduction for...
THEN see...
contributions to a health savings account Pub. 969, Health Savings Accounts and Other T ax-Favored
Health Plans.
moving expenses Pub. 3, Armed Forces’ T ax Guide.
part of your self-employment tax chapter 11.
self-employed health insurance Pub. 502, Medical and Dental Expenses.
payments to self-employed SEP , SIMPLE, and qualified plans Pub. 560, Retirement Plans for Small Business.
penalty on the early withdrawal of savings chapter 6.
contributions to an Archer MSA Pub. 969.
reforestation amortization or expense chapters 4 and 7 of Pub. 225, Farmer’s T ax Guide.
contributions to Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(18)(D)
pension plans
Pub. 525, T axable and Nontaxable Income.
expenses from the rental of personal property chapter 8.
certain required repayments of supplemental unemployment
benefits (sub-pay)
chapter 8.
foreign housing costs chapter 4 of Pub. 54, T ax Guide for U.S. Citizens and Resident
Aliens Abroad.
jury duty pay given to your employer chapter 8.
contributions by certain ministers or chaplains to Internal
Revenue Code section 403(b) plans
Pub. 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of
the Clergy and Religious Workers.
attorney fees and certain costs for actions involving IRS awards
to whistleblowers
Pub. 525.
Page 48 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
46 Chapter 4 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 49]
5.
Wages, Salaries,
and Other
Earnings
What’s New
Deferred compensation contribution limit
increased. If you participate in a 401(k) plan,
403(b) plan, or the federal government’s Thrift
Savings Plan, the total annual amount you can
contribute for 2025 is increased to:
• $23,500,
• $31,000 if age 50 or older, or
• $37,750 if age 60 through 63 at the end of
2025.
This also applies to most section 457 plans.
Health flexible spending arrangements
(health FSAs) under cafeteria plans.  For tax
years beginning in 2025, the dollar limitation under section 125(i) on voluntary employee salary
reductions for contributions to health FSAs is
$3,300.
Introduction
This chapter discusses compensation received
for services as an employee, such as wages,
salaries, and fringe benefits. The following topics are included.
• Bonuses and awards.
• Special rules for certain employees.
• Sickness and injury benefits.
The chapter explains what income is included and isn’t included in the employee’s gross
income.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
463 T ravel, Gift, and Car Expenses
502 Medical and Dental Expenses
524 Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled
525 T axable and Nontaxable Income
526 Charitable Contributions
550 Investment Income and Expenses
554 T ax Guide for Seniors
575 Pension and Annuity Income
907 T ax Highlights for Persons With
Disabilities
926 Household Employer’s T ax Guide
  463
  502
  524
  525
  526
  550
  554
  575
  907
  926
3920 T ax Relief for Victims of T errorist
Attacks
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
Employee
Compensation
This section discusses various types of employee compensation, including fringe benefits,
retirement plan contributions, stock options,
and restricted property.
Form W -2. If you’re an employee, you should
receive a Form W -2 from your employer showing the pay you received for your services. Include your pay on Form 1040 or 1040 -SR,
line 1a, even if you don’t receive a Form W-2.
In some instances, your employer isn’t required to give you a Form W -2. Y our employer
isn’t required to give you a Form W -2 if you perform household work in your employer’s home
for less than $2,800 in cash wages during the
calendar year and you have no federal income
taxes withheld from your wages. Household
work is work done in or around an employer’s
home. Some examples of workers who do
household work are:
• Babysitters,
• Butlers,
• Caretakers,
• Cooks,
• Domestic workers,
• Drivers,
• Health aides,
• Housecleaning workers,
• Housekeepers,
• Maids,
• Nannies,
• Private nurses, and
• Y ard workers.
See Schedule H (Form 1040), Household
Employment T axes, and its instructions, and
Pub. 926 for more information.
If you performed services, other than as an
independent contractor, and your employer
didn’t withhold social security and Medicare
taxes from your pay, you must file Form 8919,
Uncollected Social Security and Medicare T ax
on Wages, with your Form 1040 or 1040 -SR.
See Form 8919 and its instructions for more information on how to figure unreported wages
and taxes and how to include them on your income tax return.
Childcare providers. If you provide childcare,
either in the child’s home or in your home or
other place of business, the pay you receive
must be included in your income. If you aren’t
an employee, you’re probably self -employed
and must include payments for your services on
Schedule C (Form 1040), Profit or Loss From
Business. Y ou generally aren’t an employee unless you’re subject to the will and control of the
person who employs you as to what you’re to do
and how you’re to do it.
  3920 Babysitting. If you’re paid to babysit, even
for relatives or neighborhood children, whether
on a regular basis or only periodically, the rules
for childcare providers apply to you.
Self-employment tax. Whether you’re an employee or self -employed person, your income
could be subject to self -employment tax. See
the instructions for Schedules C and SE (Form
1040) if you’re self -employed. Also, see Pub.
926 for more information.
Miscellaneous
Compensation
This section discusses different types of employee compensation.
Advance commissions and other earnings.
If you receive advance commissions or other
amounts for services to be performed in the future and you’re a cash -method taxpayer, you
must include these amounts in your income in
the year you receive them.
If you repay unearned commissions or other
amounts in the same year you receive them, reduce the amount included in your income by the
repayment. If you repay them in a later tax year,
you can deduct the repayment as an itemized
deduction on your Schedule A (Form 1040),
line 16, or you may be able to take a credit for
that year. See Repayments in chapter 8.
Allowances and reimbursements.  If you receive travel, transportation, or other business
expense allowances or reimbursements from
your employer, see Pub. 463, T ravel, Gift, and
Car Expenses. If you’re a member of the military
and you’re reimbursed for moving expenses,
see Pub. 521, Moving Expenses.
Back pay awards. If you receive an amount in
payment of a settlement or judgment for back
pay, you must include the amount of the payment in your income. This includes payments
made to you for damages, unpaid life insurance
premiums, and unpaid health insurance premiums. They should be reported to you by your
employer on Form W-2.
Bonuses and awards.  If you receive a bonus
or award (cash, goods, services, etc.) from your
employer, you must include its value in your income. However, if your employer merely promises to pay you a bonus or award at some future
time, it isn’t taxable until you receive it or it’s
made available to you.
Employee achievement award.  If you receive tangible personal property (other than
cash, a gift certificate, or an equivalent item) as
an award for length of service or safety achievement, you can generally exclude its value from
your income. The amount you can exclude is
limited to your employer’s cost and can’t be
more than $1,600 for qualified plan awards or
$400 for nonqualified plan awards for all such
awards you receive during the year. Y our employer can tell you whether your award is a
qualified plan award. Y our employer must make
the award as part of a meaningful presentation,
under conditions and circumstances that don’t
create a significant likelihood of it being disguised pay.
Page 49 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings 47

[PAGE 50]
However, the exclusion doesn’t apply to the
following awards.
• A length-of-service award if you received it
for less than 5 years of service or if you received another length-of-service award
during the year or the previous 4 years.
• A safety achievement award if you’re a
manager, administrator, clerical employee,
or other professional employee or if more
than 10% of eligible employees previously
received safety achievement awards during the year.
Example. Y ou received three employee
achievement awards during the year: a nonqualified plan award of a watch valued at $250, two
qualified plan awards of a stereo valued at
$1,000, and a set of golf clubs valued at $500.
Assuming that the requirements for qualified
plan awards are otherwise satisfied, each award
by itself would be excluded from income. However, because the $1,750 total value of the
awards is more than $1,600, you must include
$150 ($1,750 – $1,600) in your income.
Differential wage payments. This is any payment made to you by an employer for any period during which you are, for a period of more
than 30 days, an active duty member of the uniformed services and represents all or a portion
of the wages you would have received from the
employer during that period. These payments
are treated as wages and are subject to income
tax withholding but not FICA or FUTA tax. The
payments are reported as wages on Form W-2.
Government cost -of-living allowances.
Most payments received by U.S. Government
civilian employees for working abroad are taxable. However, certain cost -of-living allowances
are tax free. Pub. 516, U.S. Government Civilian
Employees Stationed Abroad, explains the tax
treatment of allowances, differentials, and other
special pay you receive for employment abroad.
Nonqualified deferred compensation plans.
Y our employer may report to you the total
amount of deferrals for the year under a nonqualified deferred compensation plan in box 12
of Form W-2, using code Y . This amount isn’t included in your income.
However, if at any time during the tax year,
the plan fails to meet certain requirements, or
isn’t operated under those requirements, all
amounts deferred under the plan for the tax
year and all preceding tax years to the extent
vested and not previously included in income
are included in your income for the current year.
This amount is included in your wages shown in
box 1 of Form W -2. It’s also shown in box 12 of
Form W-2, using code Z.
Note received for services.  If your employer
gives you a secured note as payment for your
services, you must include the fair market value
(usually the discount value) of the note in your
income for the year you receive it. When you
later receive payments on the note, a proportionate part of each payment is the recovery of
the fair market value that you previously included in your income. Don’t include that part
again in your income. Include the rest of the
payment in your income in the year of payment.
If your employer gives you a nonnegotiable
unsecured note as payment for your services,
payments on the note that are credited toward
the principal amount of the note are compensation income when you receive them.
Severance pay.  If you receive a severance
payment when your employment with your employer ends or is terminated, you must include
this amount in your income.
Accrued leave payment. If you’re a federal
employee and receive a lump -sum payment for
accrued annual leave when you retire or resign,
this amount will be included as wages on your
Form W-2.
If you resign from one agency and are reemployed by another agency, you may have to repay part of your lump -sum annual leave payment to the second agency. Y ou can reduce
gross wages by the amount you repaid in the
same tax year in which you received it. Attach to
your tax return a copy of the receipt or statement given to you by the agency you repaid to
explain the difference between the wages on
the return and the wages on your Forms W-2.
Outplacement services.  If you choose to
accept a reduced amount of severance pay so
that you can receive outplacement services
(such as training in résumé writing and interview techniques), you must include the unreduced amount of the severance pay in income.
Sick pay. Pay you receive from your employer
while you’re sick or injured is part of your salary
or wages. In addition, you must include in your
income sick pay benefits received from any of
the following payers.
• A welfare fund.
• A state sickness or disability fund.
• An association of employers or employees.
• An insurance company if your employer
paid for the plan.
However, if you paid the premiums on an accident or health insurance policy yourself, the
benefits you receive under the policy aren’t taxable. For more information, see Pub. 525, T axable and Nontaxable Income.
Social security and Medicare taxes paid by
employer. If you and your employer have an
agreement that your employer pays your social
security and Medicare taxes without deducting
them from your gross wages, you must report
the amount of tax paid for you as taxable wages
on your tax return. The payment is also treated
as wages for figuring your social security and
Medicare taxes and your social security and
Medicare benefits. However, these payments
aren’t treated as social security and Medicare
wages if you’re a household worker or a farm
worker.
Stock appreciation rights.  Don’t include a
stock appreciation right granted by your employer in income until you exercise (use) the
right. When you use the right, you’re entitled to
a cash payment equal to the fair market value of
the corporation’s stock on the date of use minus
the fair market value on the date the right was
granted. Y ou include the cash payment in your
income in the year you use the right.
Fringe Benefits
Fringe benefits received in connection with the
performance of your services are included in
your income as compensation unless you pay
fair market value for them or they’re specifically
excluded by law. Refraining from the performance of services (for example, under a covenant
not to compete) is treated as the performance
of services for purposes of these rules.
Accounting period.  Y ou must use the same
accounting period your employer uses to report
your taxable noncash fringe benefits. Y our employer has the option to report taxable noncash
fringe benefits by using either of the following
rules.
• The general rule: benefits are reported for
a full calendar year (January 1–December
31).
• The special accounting period rule: benefits provided during the last 2 months of the
calendar year (or any shorter period) are
treated as paid during the following calendar year, for example, each year your employer reports the value of benefits provided during the last 2 months of the prior
year and the first 10 months of the current
year.
Y our employer doesn’t have to use the same accounting period for each fringe benefit, but must
use the same period for all employees who receive a particular benefit.
Y ou must use the same accounting period
that you use to report the benefit to claim an
employee business deduction (for use of a car,
for example).
Form W-2. Y our employer must include all taxable fringe benefits in box 1 of Form W-2 as wages, tips, and other compensation and, if applicable, in boxes 3 and 5 as social security and
Medicare wages. Although not required, your
employer may include the total value of fringe
benefits in box 14 (or on a separate statement).
However, if your employer provided you with a
vehicle and included 100% of its annual lease
value in your income, the employer must separately report this value to you in box 14 (or on a
separate statement).
Accident or Health Plan
In most cases, the value of accident or health
plan coverage provided to you by your employer
isn’t included in your income. Benefits you receive from the plan may be taxable, as explained later under Sickness and Injury Benefits.
For information on the items covered in this
section, other than long -term care coverage,
see Pub. 969, Health Savings Accounts and
Other T ax-Favored Health Plans.
Long-term care coverage.  Contributions by
your employer to provide coverage for long-term
care services generally aren’t included in your
income. However, contributions made through a
flexible spending or similar arrangement offered
by your employer must be included in your income. This amount will be reported as wages in
box 1 of Form W-2.
Page 50 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
48 Chapter 5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 51]
Contributions you make to the plan are discussed in Pub. 502, Medical and Dental Expenses.
Archer MSA contributions.  Contributions by
your employer to your Archer MSA generally
aren’t included in your income. Their total will be
reported in box 12 of Form W -2, with code R.
Y ou must report this amount on Form 8853,
Archer MSAs and Long -T erm Care Insurance
Contracts. File the form with your return.
Health flexible spending arrangement
(health FSA).  If your employer provides a
health FSA that qualifies as an accident or
health plan, the amount of your salary reduction, and reimbursements of your medical care
expenses, in most cases, aren’t included in your
income.
Note:  Health FSAs are subject to a limit on
salary reduction contributions for plan years beginning after 2012. For tax years beginning in
2025, the dollar limitation (as indexed for inflation) on voluntary employee salary reductions
for contributions to health FSAs is $3,300.
Health reimbursement arrangement (HRA).
If your employer provides an HRA that qualifies
as an accident or health plan, coverage and reimbursements of your medical care expenses
generally aren’t included in your income.
Health savings account (HSA).  If you’re an
eligible individual, you and any other person, including your employer or a family member, can
make contributions to your HSA. Contributions,
other than employer contributions, are deductible on your return whether or not you itemize
deductions. Contributions made by your employer aren’t included in your income. Distributions from your HSA that are used to pay qualified medical expenses aren’t included in your
income. Distributions not used for qualified
medical expenses are included in your income.
See Pub. 969 for the requirements of an HSA.
Contributions by a partnership to a bona fide
partner’s HSA aren’t contributions by an employer. The contributions are treated as a distribution of money and aren’t included in the partner’s gross income. Contributions by a
partnership to a partner’s HSA for services rendered are treated as guaranteed payments that
are includible in the partner’s gross income. In
both situations, the partner can deduct the contribution made to the partner’s HSA.
Contributions by an S corporation to a 2%
shareholder-employee’s HSA for services rendered are treated as guaranteed payments and
are includible in the shareholder -employee’s
gross income. The shareholder -employee can
deduct the contribution made to the shareholder-employee’s HSA.
Qualified HSA funding distribution.  Y ou
can make a one-time distribution from your individual retirement account (IRA) to an HSA and
you generally won’t include any of the distribution in your income.
Adoption Assistance
Y ou may be able to exclude from your income
amounts paid or expenses incurred by your employer for qualified adoption expenses in connection with your adoption of an eligible child.
See the Instructions for Form 8839, Qualified
Adoption Expenses, for more information.
Adoption benefits are reported by your employer in box 12 of Form W-2, with code T . They
are also included as social security and Medicare wages in boxes 3 and 5. However, they
aren’t included as wages in box 1. T o determine
the taxable and nontaxable amounts, you must
complete Part III of Form 8839. File the form
with your return.
De Minimis (Minimal) Benefits
If your employer provides you with a product or
service and the cost of it is so small that it would
be unreasonable for the employer to account for
it, you generally don’t include its value in your
income. In most cases, don’t include in your income the value of discounts at company cafeterias, cab fares home when working overtime,
and company picnics.
Holiday gifts. If your employer gives you a turkey, ham, or other item of nominal value at
Christmas or other holidays, don’t include the
value of the gift in your income. However, if your
employer gives you cash or a cash equivalent,
you must include it in your income.
Educational Assistance
Y ou can exclude from your income up to $5,250
of qualified employer -provided educational assistance. For more information, see Pub. 970,
T ax Benefits for Education.
Group-Term Life Insurance
In most cases, the cost of up to $50,000 of
group-term life insurance coverage provided to
you by your employer (or former employer) isn’t
included in your income. However, you must include in income the cost of employer -provided
insurance that is more than the cost of $50,000
of coverage reduced by any amount you pay toward the purchase of the insurance.
For exceptions, see Entire cost excluded
and Entire cost taxed, later.
If your employer provided more than
$50,000 of coverage, the amount included in
your income is reported as part of your wages in
box 1 of Form W -2. Also, it’s shown separately
in box 12 with code C.
Group-term life insurance.  This insurance is
term life insurance protection (insurance for a
fixed period of time) that:
• Provides a general death benefit,
• Is provided to a group of employees,
• Is provided under a policy carried by the
employer, and
• Provides an amount of insurance to each
employee based on a formula that prevents
individual selection.
Permanent benefits. If your group -term life
insurance policy includes permanent benefits,
such as a paid -up or cash surrender value, you
must include in your income, as wages, the cost
of the permanent benefits minus the amount
you pay for them. Y our employer should be able
to tell you the amount to include in your income.
Accidental death benefits.  Insurance that
provides accidental or other death benefits but
doesn’t provide general death benefits (travel
insurance, for example) isn’t group -term life insurance.
Former employer.  If your former employer
provided more than $50,000 of group -term life
insurance coverage during the year, the amount
included in your income is reported as wages in
box 1 of Form W -2. Also, it’s shown separately
in box 12 with code C. Box 12 will also show the
amount of uncollected social security and Medicare taxes on the excess coverage, with codes
M and N. Y ou must pay these taxes with your income tax return. Include them on Schedule 2
(Form 1040), line 13.
Two or more employers.  Y our exclusion for
employer-provided group -term life insurance
coverage can’t exceed the cost of $50,000 of
coverage, whether the insurance is provided by
a single employer or multiple employers. If two
or more employers provide insurance coverage
that totals more than $50,000, the amounts reported as wages on your Forms W -2 won’t be
correct. Y ou must figure how much to include in
your income. Reduce the amount you figure by
any amount reported in box 12 of Form W -2,
with code C, add the result to the wages reported in box 1, and report the total on your return.
Figuring the taxable cost.  Use Worksheet
5-1 to figure the amount to include in your income.
Page 51 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings 49

[PAGE 52]
Worksheet 5-1. Figuring the
Cost of Group-Term Life
Insurance To Include in
Income
Keep for Y our Records
1. Enter the total amount of
your insurance coverage
from your
employer(s) ............ 1.
2. Limit on exclusion for
employer-provided
group-term life insurance
coverage .............. 2. 50,000
3. Subtract line 2 from
line 1 ................. 3.
4. Divide line 3 by $1,000.
Figure to the nearest
tenth ................. 4.
5. Go to T able 5-1. Using your
age on the last day of the tax
year, find your age group in
the left column, and enter the
cost from the column on the
right for your age
group ................ 5.
6. Multiply line 4 by
line 5 ................. 6.
7. Enter the number of full
months of coverage at this
cost .................. 7.
8. Multiply line 6 by
line 7 ................. 8.
9. Enter the
premiums you paid
per month ..... 9.
10. Enter the number
of months you paid
the
premiums ..... 10.
11. Multiply line 9 by
line 10 ................ 11.
12. Subtract line 11 from line 8.
Include this amount in
your income as
wages ............... 12.
T able 5-1. Cost of $1,000 of
Group-Term Life Insurance for 1
Month
Age Cost
Under 25 ................. $ 0.05
25 through 29 .............. 0.06
30 through 34 .............. 0.08
35 through 39 .............. 0.09
40 through 44 .............. 0.10
45 through 49 .............. 0.15
50 through 54 .............. 0.23
55 through 59 .............. 0.43
60 through 64 .............. 0.66
65 through 69 .............. 1.27
70 and above .............. 2.06
Example.  Y ou are 51 years old and work
for two employers, Green Company and Maple
Company. Both employers provide group -term
life insurance coverage for you for the entire
year. Y our coverage is $35,000 with Green
Company and $45,000 with Maple Company.
Y ou pay premiums of $4.15 a month under the
Maple Company group plan. Y ou figure the
amount to include in your income as shown in
Worksheet 5 -1. Figuring the Cost of
Group-T erm Life Insurance T o Include in Income—Illustrated next.
Worksheet 5-1. Figuring the
Cost of Group-Term Life
Insurance To Include in
Income—Illustrated
Keep for Y our Records
1. Enter the total amount of
your insurance coverage
from your
employer(s) ............ 1. 80,000
2. Limit on exclusion for
employer-provided
group-term life insurance
coverage .............. 2. 50,000
3. Subtract line 2 from
line 1 ................. 3. 30,000
4. Divide line 3 by $1,000.
Figure to the nearest
tenth ................. 4. 30.0
5. Go to T able 5-1. Using your
age on the last day of the tax
year, find your age group in
the left column, and enter the
cost from the column on the
right for your age
group ................ 5. 0.23
6. Multiply line 4 by
line 5 ................. 6. 6.90
7. Enter the number of full
months of coverage at this
cost .................. 7. 12
8. Multiply line 6 by
line 7 ................. 8. 82.80
9. Enter the
premiums you paid
per month ..... 9. 4.15
10. Enter the number
of months you paid
the
premiums ..... 10. 12
11. Multiply line 9 by
line 10 ................ 11. 49.80
12. Subtract line 11 from line 8.
Include this amount in
your income as
wages ............... 12. 33.00
Entire cost excluded. Y ou aren’t taxed on the
cost of group-term life insurance if any of the following circumstances apply.
1. Y ou’re permanently and totally disabled
and have ended your employment.
2. Y our employer is the beneficiary of the policy for the entire period the insurance is in
force during the tax year.
3. A charitable organization (defined in Pub.
526, Charitable Contributions) to which
contributions are deductible is the only
beneficiary of the policy for the entire period the insurance is in force during the tax
year. (Y ou aren’t entitled to a deduction for
a charitable contribution for naming a
charitable organization as the beneficiary
of your policy.)
4. The plan existed on January 1, 1984, and:
a. Y ou retired before January 2, 1984,
and were covered by the plan when
you retired, or
b. Y ou reached age 55 before January 2,
1984, and were employed by the employer or its predecessor in 1983.
Entire cost taxed.  Y ou’re taxed on the entire
cost of group -term life insurance if either of the
following circumstances apply.
• The insurance is provided by your employer through a qualified employees’ trust,
such as a pension trust or a qualified annuity plan.
• Y ou’re a key employee and your employer’s
plan discriminates in favor of key employees.
Retirement Planning Services
Generally, don’t include the value of qualified retirement planning services provided to you and
your spouse by your employer’s qualified retirement plan. Qualified services include retirement
planning advice, information about your employer’s retirement plan, and information about
how the plan may fit into your overall individual
retirement income plan. Y ou can’t exclude the
value of any tax preparation, accounting, legal,
or brokerage services provided by your employer.
Transportation
If your employer provides you with a qualified
transportation fringe benefit, it can be excluded
from your income, up to certain limits. A qualified transportation fringe benefit is:
• T ransportation in a commuter highway vehicle (such as a van) between your home
and work place,
• A transit pass, or
• Qualified parking.
Cash reimbursement by your employer for these
expenses under a bona fide reimbursement arrangement is also excludable. However, cash
reimbursement for a transit pass is excludable
only if a voucher or similar item that can be exchanged only for a transit pass isn’t readily
available for direct distribution to you.
Exclusion limit.  The exclusion for commuter
vehicle transportation and transit pass fringe
benefits can’t be more than $325 a month.
The exclusion for the qualified parking fringe
benefit can’t be more than $325 a month.
If the benefits have a value that is more than
these limits, the excess must be included in
your income.
Commuter highway vehicle.  This is a highway vehicle that seats at least six adults (not including the driver). At least 80% of the vehicle’s
mileage must reasonably be expected to be:
• For transporting employees between their
homes and workplace, and
• On trips during which employees occupy at
least half of the vehicle’s adult seating capacity (not including the driver).
Transit pass. This is any pass, token, farecard,
voucher, or similar item entitling a person to ride
mass transit (whether public or private) free or
at a reduced rate or to ride in a commuter highway vehicle operated by a person in the business of transporting persons for compensation.
Qualified parking. This is parking provided to
an employee at or near the employer’s place of
business. It also includes parking provided on
Page 52 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
50 Chapter 5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 53]
or near a location from which the employee
commutes to work by mass transit, in a commuter highway vehicle, or by carpool. It doesn’t
include parking at or near the employee’s home.
Retirement Plan
Contributions
Y our employer’s contributions to a qualified retirement plan for you aren’t included in income
at the time contributed. (Y our employer can tell
you whether your retirement plan is qualified.)
However, the cost of life insurance coverage included in the plan may have to be included. See
Group-T erm Life Insurance , earlier, under
Fringe Benefits.
If your employer pays into a nonqualified
plan for you, you must generally include the
contributions in your income as wages for the
tax year in which the contributions are made.
However, if your interest in the plan isn’t transferable or is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (you have a good chance of losing it) at
the time of the contribution, you don’t have to include the value of your interest in your income
until it’s transferable or is no longer subject to a
substantial risk of forfeiture.
For information on distributions from retirement plans, see Pub. 575, Pension
and Annuity Income (or Pub. 721, T ax
Guide to U.S. Civil Service Retirement Benefits,
if you’re a federal employee or retiree).
Elective deferrals. If you’re covered by certain
kinds of retirement plans, you can choose to
have part of your compensation contributed by
your employer to a retirement fund, rather than
have it paid to you. The amount you set aside
(called an elective deferral) is treated as an employer contribution to a qualified plan. An elective deferral, other than a designated Roth contribution (discussed later), isn’t included in
wages subject to income tax at the time contributed. Rather, it’s subject to income tax when
distributed from the plan. However, it’s included
in wages subject to social security and Medicare taxes at the time contributed.
Elective deferrals include elective contributions to the following retirement plans.
1. Cash or deferred arrangements (section
401(k) plans).
2. The Thrift Savings Plan for federal employees.
3. Salary reduction simplified employee pension plans (SARSEP).
4. Savings incentive match plans for employees (SIMPLE plans).
5. T ax-sheltered annuity plans (section
403(b) plans).
6. Section 501(c)(18)(D) plans.
7. Section 457 plans.
Qualified automatic contribution arrangements.  Under a qualified automatic contribution arrangement, your employer can treat you
as having elected to have a part of your compensation contributed to a section 401(k) plan.
Y ou are to receive written notice of your rights
and obligations under the qualified automatic
TIP
contribution arrangement. The notice must explain:
• Y our rights to elect not to have elective
contributions made, or to have contributions made at a different percentage; and
• How contributions made will be invested in
the absence of any investment decision by
you.
Y ou must be given a reasonable period of
time after receipt of the notice and before the
first elective contribution is made to make an
election with respect to the contributions.
Overall limit on deferrals.  For 2025, in
most cases, you shouldn’t have deferred more
than a total of $23,500 of contributions to the
plans listed in (1) through (3) and (5) above.
The limit for SIMPLE plans is $16,500. The limit
for section 501(c)(18)(D) plans is the lesser of
$7,000 or 25% of your compensation. The limit
for section 457 plans is the lesser of your includible compensation or $23,500. Amounts
deferred under specific plan limits are part of
the overall limit on deferrals.
Designated Roth contributions.  Employers with section 401(k) plans, section 403(b)
plans, and governmental section 457 plans can
create qualified Roth contribution programs so
that you may elect to have part or all of your
elective deferrals to the plan designated as after-tax Roth contributions. Designated Roth
contributions are treated as elective deferrals,
except that they’re included in income at the
time contributed.
Excess deferrals.  Y our employer or plan
administrator should apply the proper annual
limit when figuring your plan contributions. However, you’re responsible for monitoring the total
you defer to ensure that the deferrals aren’t
more than the overall limit.
If you set aside more than the limit, the excess must generally be included in your income
for that year, unless you have an excess deferral
of a designated Roth contribution. See Pub. 525
for a discussion of the tax treatment of excess
deferrals.
Catch-up contributions.  Y ou may be allowed catch -up contributions (additional elective deferral) if you’re age 50 or older by the end
of the tax year. For more information, see Pub.
525.
Stock Options
If you receive a nonstatutory option to buy or
sell stock or other property as payment for your
services, you will usually have income when
you receive the option, when you exercise the
option (use it to buy or sell the stock or other
property), or when you sell or otherwise dispose
of the option. However, if your option is a statutory stock option, you won’t have any income
until you sell or exchange your stock. Y our employer can tell you which kind of option you
hold. For more information, see Pub. 525.
Restricted Property
In most cases, if you receive property for your
services, you must include its fair market value
in your income in the year you receive the property. However, if you receive stock or other
property that is nontransferable or subject to a
substantial risk of forfeiture, you don’t include
the value of the property in your income until it
becomes substantially vested. (Although you
can elect to include the value of the property in
your income in the year it becomes transferred
to you.) For more information, see Restricted
Property in Pub. 525.
Dividends received on restricted stock.
Dividends you receive on restricted stock are
treated as compensation and not as dividend
income. Y our employer should include these
payments on your Form W-2.
Stock you elected to include in income.
Dividends you receive on restricted stock you
elected to include in your income in the year
transferred are treated the same as any other
dividends. Report them on your return as dividends. For a discussion of dividends, see Pub.
550, Investment Income and Expenses.
For information on how to treat dividends reported on both your Form W -2 and Form
1099-DIV , see Dividends received on restricted
stock in Pub. 525.
Special Rules for
Certain Employees
This section deals with special rules for people
in certain types of employment: members of the
clergy, members of religious orders, people
working for foreign employers, military personnel, and volunteers.
Clergy
Generally, if you’re a member of the clergy, you
must include in your income offerings and fees
you receive for marriages, baptisms, funerals,
masses, etc., in addition to your salary. If the offering is made to the religious institution, it isn’t
taxable to you.
If you’re a member of a religious organization and you give your outside earnings to the
religious organization, you must still include the
earnings in your income. However, you may be
entitled to a charitable contribution deduction
for the amount paid to the organization. See
Pub. 526.
Pension. A pension or retirement pay for a
member of the clergy is usually treated as any
other pension or annuity. It must be reported on
lines 5a and 5b of Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Housing. Special rules for housing apply to
members of the clergy. Under these rules, you
don’t include in your income the rental value of
a home (including utilities) or a designated
housing allowance provided to you as part of
your pay. However, the exclusion can’t be more
than the reasonable pay for your services. If you
pay for the utilities, you can exclude any allowance designated for utility cost, up to your actual cost. The home or allowance must be provided as compensation for your services as an
ordained, licensed, or commissioned minister.
However, you must include the rental value of
the home or the housing allowance as earnings
from self -employment on Schedule SE (Form
Page 53 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings 51

[PAGE 54]
1040) if you’re subject to self -employment tax.
For more information, see Pub. 517, Social Security and Other Information for Members of the
Clergy and Religious Workers.
Members of Religious
Orders
If you’re a member of a religious order who has
taken a vow of poverty, how you treat earnings
that you renounce and turn over to the order depends on whether your services are performed
for the order.
Services performed for the order.  If you’re
performing the services as an agent of the order
in the exercise of duties required by the order,
don’t include in your income the amounts turned
over to the order.
If your order directs you to perform services
for another agency of the supervising church or
an associated institution, you’re considered to
be performing the services as an agent of the
order. Any wages you earn as an agent of an order that you turn over to the order aren’t included in your income.
Example.  Y ou’re a member of a church order and have taken a vow of poverty. Y ou renounce any claims to your earnings and turn
over to the order any salaries or wages you
earn. Y ou’re a registered nurse, so your order
assigns you to work in a hospital that is an associated institution of the church. However, you
remain under the general direction and control
of the order. Y ou’re considered to be an agent of
the order and any wages you earn at the hospital that you turn over to your order aren’t included in your income.
Services performed outside the order.  If
you’re directed to work outside the order, your
services aren’t an exercise of duties required by
the order unless they meet both of the following
requirements.
• They’re the kind of services that are ordinarily the duties of members of the order.
• They’re part of the duties that you must exercise for, or on behalf of, the religious order as its agent.
If you’re an employee of a third party, the services you perform for the third party won’t be
considered directed or required of you by the
order. Amounts you receive for these services
are included in your income, even if you have
taken a vow of poverty.
Example.  Y ou are a member of a religious
order and have taken a vow of poverty. Y ou renounce all claims to your earnings and turn over
your earnings to the order.
Y ou are a schoolteacher. Y ou were instructed by the superiors of the order to get a job
with a private tax -exempt school. Y ou became
an employee of the school, and, at your request, the school made the salary payments directly to the order.
Because you are an employee of the school,
you’re performing services for the school rather
than as an agent of the order. The wages you
earn working for the school are included in your
income.
Foreign Employer
Special rules apply if you work for a foreign employer.
U.S. citizen. If you’re a U.S. citizen who works
in the United States for a foreign government,
an international organization, a foreign embassy, or any foreign employer, you must include your salary in your income.
Social security and Medicare taxes.
Y ou’re exempt from social security and Medicare employee taxes if you’re employed in the
United States by an international organization or
a foreign government. However, you must pay
self-employment tax on your earnings from
services performed in the United States, even
though you aren’t self -employed. This rule also
applies if you’re an employee of a qualifying
wholly owned instrumentality of a foreign government.
Employees of international organizations or
foreign governments. Y our compensation for
official services to an international organization
is exempt from federal income tax if you aren’t a
citizen of the United States or you’re a citizen of
the Philippines (whether or not you’re a citizen
of the United States).
Y our compensation for official services to a
foreign government is exempt from federal income tax if all of the following are true.
• Y ou aren’t a citizen of the United States or
you’re a citizen of the Philippines (whether
or not you’re a citizen of the United States).
• Y our work is like the work done by employees of the United States in foreign countries.
• The foreign government gives an equal exemption to employees of the United States
in its country.
Waiver of alien status.  If you’re an alien
who works for a foreign government or international organization and you file a waiver under
section 247(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act to keep your immigrant status, different
rules may apply. See Foreign Employer in Pub.
525.
Employment abroad.  For information on the
tax treatment of income earned abroad, see
Pub. 54.
Military
Payments you receive as a member of a military
service are generally taxed as wages except for
retirement pay, which is taxed as a pension. Allowances generally aren’t taxed. For more information on the tax treatment of military allowances and benefits, see Pub. 3, Armed Forces’
T ax Guide.
Differential wage payments.  Any payments
made to you by an employer during the time
you’re performing service in the uniformed services are treated as compensation. These wages
are subject to income tax withholding and are
reported on a Form W -2. See the discussion
under Miscellaneous Compensation, earlier.
Military retirement pay. If your retirement pay
is based on age or length of service, it’s taxable
and must be included in your income as a pension on lines 5a and 5b of Form 1040 or
1040-SR. Don’t include in your income the
amount of any reduction in retirement or retainer pay to provide a survivor annuity for your
spouse or children under the Retired Serviceman’s Family Protection Plan or the Survivor
Benefit Plan.
For more detailed discussion of survivor annuities, see Pub. 575, Pension and Annuity Income.
Disability. If you’re retired on disability, see
Military and Government Disability Pensions under Sickness and Injury Benefits, later.
Veterans’ benefits.  Don’t include in your income any veterans’ benefits paid under any law,
regulation, or administrative practice administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA). The following amounts paid to veterans or
their families aren’t taxable.
• Education, training, and subsistence allowances.
• Disability compensation and pension payments for disabilities paid either to veterans or their families.
• Grants for homes designed for wheelchair
living.
• Grants for motor vehicles for veterans who
lost their sight or the use of their limbs.
• Veterans’ insurance proceeds and dividends paid either to veterans or their beneficiaries, including the proceeds of a veteran’s endowment policy paid before death.
• Interest on insurance dividends you leave
on deposit with the VA.
• Benefits under a dependent-care assistance program.
• The death gratuity paid to a survivor of a
member of the Armed Forces who died after September 10, 2001.
• Payments made under the compensated
work therapy program.
• Any bonus payment by a state or political
subdivision because of service in a combat
zone.
Volunteers
The tax treatment of amounts you receive as a
volunteer worker for the Peace Corps or similar
agency is covered in the following discussions.
Peace Corps.  Living allowances you receive
as a Peace Corps volunteer or volunteer leader
for housing, utilities, household supplies, food,
and clothing are generally exempt from tax.
Taxable allowances.  The following allowances, however, must be included in your income and reported as wages.
• Allowances paid to your spouse and minor
children while you’re a volunteer leader
training in the United States.
• Living allowances designated by the Director of the Peace Corps as basic compensation. These are allowances for personal
items such as domestic help, laundry and
clothing maintenance, entertainment and
Page 54 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
52 Chapter 5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 55]
recreation, transportation, and other miscellaneous expenses.
• Leave allowances.
• Readjustment allowances or termination
payments. These are considered received
by you when credited to your account.
Example.  Y ou are a Peace Corps volunteer and get $175 a month as a readjustment allowance during your period of service, to be
paid to you in a lump sum at the end of your tour
of duty. Although the allowance isn’t available to
you until the end of your service, you must include it in your income on a monthly basis as it’s
credited to your account.
Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA). If
you’re a VISTA volunteer, you must include meal
and lodging allowances paid to you in your income as wages.
National Senior Services Corps programs.
Don’t include in your income amounts you receive for supportive services or reimbursements
for out -of-pocket expenses from the following
programs.
• Retired Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP).
• Foster Grandparent Program.
• Senior Companion Program.
Service Corps of Retired Executives
(SCORE). If you receive amounts for supportive services or reimbursements for
out-of-pocket expenses from SCORE, don’t include these amounts in gross income.
Volunteer tax counseling.  Don’t include in
your income any reimbursements you receive
for transportation, meals, and other expenses
you have in training for, or actually providing,
volunteer federal income tax counseling for the
elderly (TCE).
Y ou can deduct as a charitable contribution
your unreimbursed out -of-pocket expenses in
taking part in the volunteer income tax assistance (VITA) program. See Pub. 526.
Volunteer firefighters and emergency medical responders.  If you are a volunteer firefighter or emergency medical responder, don’t
include in your income the following benefits
you receive from a state or local government.
• Rebates or reductions of property or income taxes you receive because of services you performed as a volunteer firefighter or emergency medical responder.
• Payments you receive because of services
you performed as a volunteer firefighter or
emergency medical responder, up to $50
for each month you provided services.
The excluded income reduces any related tax
or contribution deduction.
Sickness and Injury
Benefits
This section discusses sickness and injury benefits, including disability pensions, long -term
care insurance contracts, workers’ compensation, and other benefits.
In most cases, you must report as income
any amount you receive for personal injury or
sickness through an accident or health plan that
is paid for by your employer. If both you and
your employer pay for the plan, only the amount
you receive that is due to your employer’s payments is reported as income. However, certain
payments may not be taxable to you. For information on nontaxable payments, see Military
and Government Disability Pensions  and Other
Sickness and Injury Benefits , later in this discussion.
Don’t report as income any amounts
paid to reimburse you for medical expenses you incurred after the plan was
established.
Cost paid by you. If you pay the entire cost of
a health or accident insurance plan, don’t include any amounts you receive from the plan for
personal injury or sickness as income on your
tax return. If your plan reimbursed you for medical expenses you deducted in an earlier year,
you may have to include some, or all, of the reimbursement in your income. See What if Y ou
Receive Insurance Reimbursement in a Later
Y ear? in Pub. 502, Medical and Dental Expenses.
Cafeteria plans. In most cases, if you’re covered by an accident or health insurance plan
through a cafeteria plan, and the amount of the
insurance premiums wasn’t included in your income, you aren’t considered to have paid the
premiums and you must include any benefits
you receive in your income. If the amount of the
premiums was included in your income, you’re
considered to have paid the premiums, and any
benefits you receive aren’t taxable.
Disability Pensions
If you retired on disability, you must include in
income any disability pension you receive under
a plan that is paid for by your employer. Y ou
must report your taxable disability payments on
line 1h of Form 1040 or 1040-SR until you reach
minimum retirement age. Minimum retirement
age is generally the age at which you can first
receive a pension or annuity if you’re not disabled.
Y ou may be entitled to a tax credit if
you were permanently and totally disabled when you retired. For information
on this credit and the definition of permanent
and total disability, see Pub. 524, Credit for the
Elderly or the Disabled.
Beginning on the day after you reach minimum retirement age, payments you receive are
taxable as a pension or annuity. Report the payments on lines 5a and 5b of Form 1040 or
1040-SR. The rules for reporting pensions are
explained in Disability Pensions in Pub. 575.
For information on disability payments from
a governmental program provided as a substitute for unemployment compensation, see Unemployment Benefits in chapter 8.
Retirement and profit -sharing plans.  If you
receive payments from a retirement or
profit-sharing plan that doesn’t provide for disability retirement, don’t treat the payments as a
disability pension. The payments must be reported as a pension or annuity. For more information on pensions, see Pub. 575.
TIP
TIP
Accrued leave payment. If you retire on disability, any lump-sum payment you receive for accrued annual leave is a salary payment. The
payment is not a disability payment. Include it in
your income in the tax year you receive it.
Military and Government Disability
Pensions
Certain military and government disability pensions aren’t taxable.
Service-connected disability.  Y ou may be
able to exclude from income amounts you receive as a pension, an annuity, or similar allowance for personal injury or sickness resulting
from active service in one of the following government services.
• The armed forces of any country.
• The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.
• The Public Health Service.
• The Foreign Service.
Conditions for exclusion. Don’t include the
disability payments in your income if any of the
following conditions apply.
1. Y ou were entitled to receive a disability
payment before September 25, 1975.
2. Y ou were a member of a listed government
service or its reserve component, or were
under a binding written commitment to become a member, on September 24, 1975.
3. Y ou receive the disability payments for a
combat-related injury. This is a personal
injury or sickness that:
a. Results directly from armed conflict;
b. T akes place while you’re engaged in
extra-hazardous service;
c. T akes place under conditions simulating war, including training exercises
such as maneuvers; or
d. Is caused by an instrumentality of war.
4. Y ou would be entitled to receive disability
compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) if you filed an application for it. Y our exclusion under this condition is equal to the amount you would be
entitled to receive from the VA.
Pension based on years of service.  If you
receive a disability pension based on years of
service, in most cases you must include it in
your income. However, if the pension qualifies
for the exclusion for a service-connected disability (discussed earlier), don’t include in income
the part of your pension that you would have received if the pension had been based on a percentage of disability. Y ou must include the rest
of your pension in your income.
Retroactive VA determination. If you retire
from the armed services based on years of
service and are later given a retroactive service-connected disability rating by the VA, your
retirement pay for the retroactive period is excluded from income up to the amount of VA disability benefits you would have been entitled to
receive. Y ou can claim a refund of any tax paid
on the excludable amount (subject to the statute
Page 55 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 5 Wages, Salaries, and Other Earnings 53

[PAGE 56]
of limitations) by filing an amended return on
Form 1040-X for each previous year during the
retroactive period. Y ou must include with each
Form 1040-X a copy of the official VA determination letter granting the retroactive benefit. The
letter must show the amount withheld and the
effective date of the benefit.
If you receive a lump -sum disability severance payment and are later awarded VA disability benefits, exclude 100% of the severance
benefit from your income. However, you must
include in your income any lump -sum readjustment or other nondisability severance payment
you received on release from active duty, even if
you’re later given a retroactive disability rating
by the VA.
Special statute of limitations.  In most cases, under the statute of limitations, a claim for
credit or refund must be filed within 3 years from
the time a return was filed or 2 years from the
time the tax was paid. However, if you receive a
retroactive service -connected disability rating
determination, the statute of limitations is extended by a 1-year period beginning on the date of
the determination. This 1 -year extended period
applies to claims for credit or refund filed after
June 17, 2008, and doesn’t apply to any tax
year that began more than 5 years before the
date of the determination.
Terrorist attack or military action.  Don’t include in your income disability payments you receive for injuries incurred as a direct result of a
terrorist attack or military action directed against
the United States (or its allies), whether outside
or within the United States or from military action. See Pub. 3920 and Pub. 907 for more information.
Long-Term Care
Insurance Contracts
Long-term care insurance contracts in most cases are treated as accident and health insurance contracts. Amounts you receive from them
(other than policyholder dividends or premium
refunds) in most cases are excludable from income as amounts received for personal injury
or sickness. T o claim an exclusion for payments
made on a per diem or other periodic basis under a long -term care insurance contract, you
must file Form 8853 with your return.
A long-term care insurance contract is an insurance contract that only provides coverage
for qualified long -term care services. The contract must:
• Be guaranteed renewable;
• Not provide for a cash surrender value or
other money that can be paid, assigned,
pledged, or borrowed;
• Provide that refunds, other than refunds on
the death of the insured or complete surrender or cancellation of the contract, and
dividends under the contract, may only be
used to reduce future premiums or increase future benefits; and
• In most cases, not pay or reimburse expenses incurred for services or items that
would be reimbursed under Medicare, except where Medicare is a secondary payer
or the contract makes per diem or other
periodic payments without regard to expenses.
Qualified long-term care services.  Qualified
long-term care services are:
• Necessary diagnostic, preventive, therapeutic, curing, treating, mitigating, and rehabilitative services, and maintenance and
personal care services; and
• Required by a chronically ill individual and
provided pursuant to a plan of care prescribed by a licensed health care practitioner.
Chronically ill individual. A chronically ill individual is one who has been certified by a licensed health care practitioner within the previous 12 months as one of the following.
• An individual who, for at least 90 days, is
unable to perform at least two activities of
daily living without substantial assistance
due to loss of functional capacity. Activities
of daily living are eating, toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing, and continence.
• An individual who requires substantial supervision to be protected from threats to
health and safety due to severe cognitive
impairment.
Limit on exclusion. Y ou can generally exclude
from gross income up to $420 a day for 2025.
See Limit on exclusion , under Long-T erm Care
Insurance Contracts, under Sickness and Injury
Benefits in Pub. 525 for more information.
Workers’ Compensation
Amounts you receive as workers’ compensation
for an occupational sickness or injury are fully
exempt from tax if they’re paid under a workers’
compensation act or a statute in the nature of a
workers’ compensation act. The exemption also
applies to your survivors. The exemption, however, doesn’t apply to retirement plan benefits
you receive based on your age, length of service, or prior contributions to the plan, even if you
retired because of an occupational sickness or
injury.
If part of your workers’ compensation
reduces your social security or equivalent railroad retirement benefits received, that part is considered social security
(or equivalent railroad retirement) benefits and
may be taxable. For more information, see Pub.
915, Social Security and Equivalent Railroad
Retirement Benefits.
Return to work.  If you return to work after
qualifying for workers’ compensation, salary
payments you receive for performing light duties
are taxable as wages.
Other Sickness and Injury
Benefits
In addition to disability pensions and annuities,
you may receive other payments for sickness or
injury.
Railroad sick pay.  Payments you receive as
sick pay under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act are taxable and you must include
them in your income. However, don’t include
CAUTION
!
them in your income if they’re for an on -the-job
injury.
If you received income because of a disability, see Disability Pensions, earlier.
Federal Employees’ Compensation Act
(FECA). Payments received under this Act for
personal injury or sickness, including payments
to beneficiaries in case of death, aren’t taxable.
However, you’re taxed on amounts you receive
under this Act as continuation of pay for up to
45 days while a claim is being decided. Report
this income as wages. Also, pay for sick leave
while a claim is being processed is taxable and
must be included in your income as wages.
If part of the payments you receive under FECA reduces your social security
or equivalent railroad retirement benefits received, that part is considered social security (or equivalent railroad retirement) benefits
and may be taxable. See Pub. 554 for more information.
Other compensation.  Many other amounts
you receive as compensation for sickness or injury aren’t taxable. These include the following
amounts.
• Compensatory damages you receive for
physical injury or physical sickness,
whether paid in a lump sum or in periodic
payments.
• Benefits you receive under an accident or
health insurance policy on which either you
paid the premiums or your employer paid
the premiums but you had to include them
in your income.
• Disability benefits you receive for loss of income or earning capacity as a result of injuries under a no-fault car insurance policy.
• Compensation you receive for permanent
loss or loss of use of a part or function of
your body, or for your permanent disfigurement. This compensation must be based
only on the injury and not on the period of
your absence from work. These benefits
aren’t taxable even if your employer pays
for the accident and health plan that provides these benefits.
Reimbursement for medical care.  A reimbursement for medical care is generally not taxable. However, it may reduce your medical expense deduction. For more information, see
Pub. 502.
6.
Interest Income
Reminders
Foreign source income. If you are a U.S. citizen with interest income from sources outside
the United States (foreign income), you must
CAUTION
!
Page 56 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
54 Chapter 6 Interest Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 57]
report that income on your tax return unless it is
exempt by U.S. law. This is true whether you reside inside or outside the United States and
whether or not you receive a Form 1099 from
the foreign payer.

Automatic 6-month extension. If you receive
your Form 1099 reporting your interest income
late and you need more time to file your tax return, you can request a 6 -month extension of
time to file. See Automatic Extension  in chapter 1.

Children who have unearned income.  See
Form 8615 and its instructions for the rules and
rates that apply to certain children with unearned income.
Introduction
This chapter discusses the following topics.
• Different types of interest income.
• What interest is taxable and what interest
is nontaxable.
• When to report interest income.
• How to report interest income on your tax
return.
In general, any interest you receive or that is
credited to your account and can be withdrawn
is taxable income. Exceptions to this rule are
discussed later in this chapter.
Y ou may be able to deduct expenses you
have in earning this income on Schedule A
(Form 1040) if you itemize your deductions. See
Money borrowed to invest in certificate of deposit, later, and chapter 12.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
525 T axable and Nontaxable Income
537 Installment Sales
550 Investment Income and Expenses
555 Community Property
1212 Guide to Original Issue Discount
(OID) Instruments
Form (and Instructions)
1040 U.S. Individual Income T ax Return
1040-SR U.S. Income T ax Return for
Seniors
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Schedule B (Form 1040) Interest and
Ordinary Dividends
Schedule K-1 (Form 1041) Beneficiary’s
Share of Income, Deductions,
Credits, etc.
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) Partner’s
Share of Income, Deductions,
Credits, etc.
Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S)
Shareholder’s Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc.
  525
  537
  550
  555
  1212
  1040
  1040-SR
  Schedule A (Form 1040)
  Schedule B (Form 1040)
  Schedule K-1 (Form 1041)
  Schedule K-1 (Form 1065)
  Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S)
W-9 Request for T axpayer Identification
Number and Certification
1099 General Instructions for Certain
Information Returns
1099-INT Interest Income
1099-DIV Dividends and Distributions
1099-OID Original Issue Discount
1099-R Distributions From Pensions,
Annuities, Retirement or
Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance
Contracts, etc.
3115 Application for Change in
Accounting Method
6251 Alternative Minimum T ax —
Individuals
8615 T ax for Certain Children Who Have
Unearned Income
8814 Parents’ Election T o Report Child’s
Interest and Dividends
8815 Exclusion of Interest From Series EE
and I U.S. Savings Bonds Issued
After 1989
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
General Information
A few items of general interest are covered
here.
Recordkeeping. Y ou should keep a
list showing sources of interest income
and interest amounts received during
the year. Also, keep the forms you receive
showing your interest income (Forms 1099 -INT ,
for example) as an important part of your records.
Tax on unearned income of certain children. Part of a child’s 2025 unearned income
may be taxed at the parent’s tax rate. If so, Form
8615 must be completed and attached to the
child’s tax return. If not, Form 8615 isn’t required
and the child’s income is taxed at his or her own
tax rate.
Some parents can choose to include the
child’s interest and dividends on the parent’s return. If you can, use Form 8814 for this purpose.
For more information about the tax on unearned income of children and the parents’
election, go to Form 8615.
Beneficiary of an estate or trust. Interest you
receive as a beneficiary of an estate or trust is
generally taxable income. Y ou should receive a
Schedule K -1 (Form 1041) from the fiduciary.
Y our copy of Schedule K-1 (Form 1041) and its
instructions will tell you where to report the income on your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN).  Y ou
must give your name and TIN (either a social
security number (SSN), an employer identification number (EIN), an adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN), or an individual tax identification number (ITIN)) to any person required
by federal tax law to make a return, statement,
or other document that relates to you. This includes payers of interest. If you don’t give your
  W-9
  1099
  1099-INT
  1099-DIV
  1099-OID
  1099-R
  3115
  6251
  8615
  8814
  8815
RECORDS
TIN to the payer of interest, the payer will generally be required to backup withhold on the interest payments at a rate of 24%, and you may
also be subject to a penalty. Use Form W -9 to
provide the necessary information. See Form
W-9 and its instructions.
TIN for joint account.  Generally, if the
funds in a joint account belong to one person,
list that person’s name first on the account and
give that person’s TIN to the payer. (For information on who owns the funds in a joint account, see Joint accounts, later.) If the joint account contains combined funds, give the TIN of
the person whose name is listed first on the account.
These rules apply to both joint ownership by
a married couple and to joint ownership by
other individuals. For example, if you open a
joint savings account with your child using funds
belonging to the child, list the child’s name first
on the account and give the child’s TIN.
Form W-9 and its instructions provide: If this
Form W-9 is for a joint account (other than an
account maintained by a foreign financial institution (FFI)), list first and then circle the name of
the person or entity whose number you entered
in Form W -9, Part I. If you are providing Form
W-9 to an FFI to document a joint account,
each holder of the account that is a U.S. person
must provide a Form W -9. See Form W -9 and
its instructions.
Custodian account for your child.  If your
child is the actual owner of an account that is
recorded in your name as custodian for the
child, give the child’s TIN to the payer. For example, you must give your child’s SSN to the
payer of interest on an account owned by your
child, even though the interest is paid to you as
custodian.
Penalty for failure to supply TIN.  If you
don’t give your TIN to the payer of interest, you
may have to pay a penalty. See Failure to supply
SSN under Penalties in chapter 1. Backup withholding may also apply.
Backup withholding.  Y our interest income is
generally not subject to regular withholding.
However, it may be subject to backup withholding to ensure that income tax is collected on the
income. Under backup withholding, the payer of
interest must withhold, as income tax, on the
amount you are paid, by applying the appropriate withholding rate. The current rate is 24%.
Withholding is required only if there is a condition for backup withholding, such as failing to
provide your TIN to the payer or failing to certify
your TIN under penalties of perjury, if required.
Backup withholding may also be required if
the IRS has determined that you underreported
your interest or dividend income. For more information, see Backup Withholding in chapter 4.
Reporting backup withholding.  If backup
withholding is deducted from your interest income, the amount withheld will be reported on
your Form 1099 -INT . The Form 1099 -INT will
show any backup withholding as “Federal income tax withheld.”
Joint accounts.  If two or more persons hold
property (such as a savings account or bond)
Page 57 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 6 Interest Income 55

[PAGE 58]
as joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or tenants in common, each person’s share of any interest from the property is determined by local
law.
Income from property given to a child.
Property you give as a parent to your child under the Model Gifts of Securities to Minors Act,
the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act, or any similar
law becomes the child’s property.
Income from the property is taxable to the
child, except that any part used to satisfy a legal
obligation to support the child is taxable to the
parent or guardian having that legal obligation.
Savings account with parent as trustee.
Interest income from a savings account opened
for a minor child but placed in the name and
subject to the order of the parents as trustees is
taxable to the child if, under the law of the state
in which the child resides, both of the following
are true.
• The savings account legally belongs to the
child.
• The parents aren’t legally permitted to use
any of the funds to support the child.
Form 1099 -INT. Interest income is generally
reported to you on Form 1099 -INT or a similar
statement by banks, savings and loans, and
other payers of interest. This form shows you
the interest income you received during the
year. Keep this form for your records. Y ou don’t
have to attach it to your tax return.
Report on your tax return the total interest income you receive for the tax year. See the Form
1099-INT Instructions for Recipient to see
whether you need to adjust any of the amounts
reported to you.
Interest not reported on Form 1099 -INT.
Even if you don’t receive a Form 1099 -INT , you
must still report all of your interest income. For
example, you may receive distributive shares of
interest from partnerships or S corporations.
This interest is reported to you on Schedule K -1
(Form 1065) or Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S).
Nominees. Generally, if someone receives
interest as a nominee for you, that person must
give you a Form 1099 -INT showing the interest
received on your behalf.
If you receive a Form 1099 -INT and interest
as a nominee for another person, see the discussion on nominee distributions under How T o
Report Interest Income in chapter 1 of Pub. 550
or the Schedule B (Form 1040) instructions.
Incorrect amount.  If you receive a Form
1099-INT that shows an incorrect amount or
other incorrect information, you should ask the
issuer for a corrected form. The new Form
1099-INT you receive will have the “CORRECTED” box checked.
Form 1099 -OID. Reportable interest income
may also be shown on Form 1099 -OID. For
more information about amounts shown on this
form, see Original Issue Discount (OID) , later in
this chapter.
The box references discussed below
are from the January 2024 revisions of
Form 1099 -INT and Form 1099 -DIV .
Later revisions may have different box references.
CAUTION
!
Exempt-interest dividends.  Exempt-interest
dividends you receive from a mutual fund or
other regulated investment company (RIC)
aren’t included in your taxable income. (However, see Information reporting requirement
next.) Exempt -interest dividends should be
shown on Form 1099-DIV , box 12. Y ou don’t reduce your basis for distributions that are exempt-interest dividends.
Information reporting requirement.  Although exempt -interest dividends aren’t taxable, you must show them on your tax return if
you have to file. This is an information reporting
requirement and doesn’t change the exempt -interest dividends into taxable income.
Note: Exempt-interest dividends paid by a
mutual fund or other RIC on specified private
activity bonds may be subject to the alternative
minimum tax (AMT). The exempt -interest dividends subject to the AMT should be shown on
Form 1099 -DIV , box 13. See Alternative Minimum T ax (AMT) in chapter 13 for more information. Chapter 1 of Pub. 550 contains a discussion on private activity bonds under State or
Local Government Obligations.
Interest on Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA) dividends.  Interest on insurance dividends left on deposit with the VA isn’t taxable.
This includes interest paid on dividends on converted United States Government Life Insurance and on National Service Life Insurance
policies.
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs).
Interest on a Roth IRA generally isn’t taxable.
Interest on a traditional IRA is tax deferred. Y ou
generally don’t include interest earned in an IRA
in your income until you make withdrawals from
the IRA. See chapter 9.
Taxable
Interest—General
T axable interest includes interest you receive
from bank accounts, loans you make to others,
and other sources. The following are some
sources of taxable interest.
Dividends that are actually interest.  Certain
distributions commonly called dividends are actually interest. Y ou must report as interest
so-called dividends on deposits or on share accounts in:
• Cooperative banks,
• Credit unions,
• Domestic building and loan associations,
• Domestic savings and loan associations,
• Federal savings and loan associations,
and
• Mutual savings banks.
The “dividends” will be shown as interest income on Form 1099-INT .
Money market funds.  Money market funds
pay dividends and are offered by nonbank financial institutions, such as mutual funds and
stock brokerage houses. Generally, amounts
you receive from money market funds should be
reported as dividends, not as interest.
Certificates of deposit and other deferred
interest accounts.  If you buy a certificate of
deposit or open a deferred interest account, interest may be paid at fixed intervals of 1 year or
less during the term of the account. Y ou must
generally include this interest in your income
when you actually receive it or are entitled to receive it without paying a substantial penalty.
The same is true for accounts that mature in 1
year or less and pay interest in a single payment
at maturity. If interest is deferred for more than 1
year, see Original Issue Discount (OID), later.
Interest subject to penalty for early withdrawal. If you withdraw funds from a deferred
interest account before maturity, you may have
to pay a penalty. Y ou must report the total
amount of interest paid or credited to your account during the year, without subtracting the
penalty. See Penalty on early withdrawal of savings in chapter 1 of Pub. 550 for more information on how to report the interest and deduct the
penalty.
Money borrowed to invest in certificate of
deposit. The interest you pay on money borrowed from a bank or savings institution to meet
the minimum deposit required for a certificate of
deposit from the institution and the interest you
earn on the certificate are two separate items.
Y ou must report the total interest income you
earn on the certificate in your income. If you
itemize deductions, you can deduct the interest
you pay as investment interest, up to the
amount of your net investment income. See Interest Expenses in chapter 3 of Pub. 550.
Example. Y ou purchase a $10,000 certificate of deposit by borrowing $5,000 from Bank
and adding an additional $5,000 of your funds.
The certificate earned $575 at maturity in 2025,
but you received only $265, which represented
the $575 you earned minus $310 interest
charged on your $5,000 loan. The bank gives
you a Form 1099 -INT for 2025 showing the
$575 interest you earned. The bank also gives
you a statement showing that you paid $310 of
interest for 2025. Y ou must include the $575 in
your income. If you itemize your deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040), you can deduct $310,
subject to the net investment income limit.
Gift for opening account.  If you receive noncash gifts or services for making deposits or for
opening an account in a savings institution, you
may have to report the value as interest.
For deposits of less than $5,000, gifts or
services valued at more than $10 must be reported as interest. For deposits of $5,000 or
more, gifts or services valued at more than $20
must be reported as interest. The value is determined by the cost to the financial institution.
Example. Y ou open a savings account at
your local bank and deposit $800. The account
earns $20 interest. Y ou also receive a $15 calculator. If no other interest is credited to your
account during the year, the Form 1099-INT you
receive will show $35 interest for the year. Y ou
must report $35 interest income on your tax return.
Interest on insurance dividends.  Interest on
insurance dividends left on deposit with an insurance company that can be withdrawn annually is taxable to you in the year it is credited to
Page 58 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
56 Chapter 6 Interest Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 59]
your account. However, if you can withdraw it
only on the anniversary date of the policy (or
other specified date), the interest is taxable in
the year that date occurs.
Prepaid insurance premiums.  Any increase
in the value of prepaid insurance premiums, advance premiums, or premium deposit funds is
interest if it is applied to the payment of premiums due on insurance policies or made available for you to withdraw.
U.S. obligations.  Interest on U.S. obligations
issued by any agency or instrumentality of the
United States, such as U.S. T reasury bills,
notes, and bonds, is taxable for federal income
tax purposes.
Interest on tax refunds.  Interest you receive
on tax refunds is taxable income.
Interest on condemnation award.  If the condemning authority pays you interest to compensate you for a delay in payment of an award, the
interest is taxable.
Installment sale payments.  If a contract for
the sale or exchange of property provides for
deferred payments, it also usually provides for
interest payable with the deferred payments.
Generally, that interest is taxable when you receive it. If little or no interest is provided for in a
deferred payment contract, part of each payment may be treated as interest. See Unstated
Interest and Original Issue Discount (OID) in
Pub. 537.
Interest on annuity contract.  Accumulated
interest on an annuity contract you sell before
its maturity date is taxable.
Usurious interest. Usurious interest is interest
charged at an illegal rate. This is taxable as interest unless state law automatically changes it
to a payment on the principal.
Interest income on frozen deposits. Exclude
from your gross income interest on frozen deposits. A deposit is frozen if at the end of the
year you can’t withdraw any part of the deposit
because:
• The financial institution is or may become
bankrupt or insolvent, or
• The state where the institution is located
has placed limits on withdrawals because
other financial institutions in the state are
bankrupt or insolvent.
The amount of interest you must exclude is
the interest that was credited on the frozen deposits minus the sum of:
• The net amount you withdrew from these
deposits during the year, and
• The amount you could have withdrawn as
of the end of the year (not reduced by any
penalty for premature withdrawals of a time
deposit).
If you receive a Form 1099 -INT for interest income on deposits that were frozen at the end of
2025, see Frozen deposits under How T o Report Interest Income in chapter 1 of Pub. 550 for
information about reporting this interest income
exclusion on your tax return.
The interest you exclude is treated as credited to your account in the following year. Y ou
must include it in income in the year you can
withdraw it.
Example. $100 of interest was credited on
your frozen deposit during the year. Y ou withdrew $80 but couldn’t withdraw any more as of
the end of the year. Y ou must include $80 in
your income and exclude $20 from your income
for the year. Y ou must include the $20 in your income for the year you can withdraw it.
Bonds traded flat.  If you buy a bond at a discount when interest has been defaulted or when
the interest has accrued but hasn’t been paid,
the transaction is described as trading a bond
flat. The defaulted or unpaid interest isn’t income and isn’t taxable as interest if paid later.
When you receive a payment of that interest, it
is a return of capital that reduces the remaining
cost basis of your bond. Interest that accrues
after the date of purchase, however, is taxable
interest income for the year it is received or accrued. See Bonds Sold Between Interest Dates,
later, for more information.
Below-market loans. Generally, a “below-market loan” means any loan if (a) in the case of a
gift or demand loan, interest is payable on the
loan at a rate less than the applicable federal
rate; or (b) in the case of a term loan, the
amount loaned exceeds the present value (using a discount rate equal to the applicable federal rate) of all payments due under the loan.
(See Code section 7872 for details.) Section
7872 applies to certain below -market loans, including gift loans, compensation -related loans,
and corporation -shareholder loans. (See Code
section 7872(c).) If you are the lender of a below-market loan, you may have additional interest income. See Below-Market Loans in chapter 1 of Pub. 550 for more information.
U.S. Savings Bonds
This section provides tax information on U.S.
savings bonds. It explains how to report the interest income on these bonds and how to treat
transfers of these bonds.
U.S. savings bonds currently offered to individuals include Series EE bonds and Series I
bonds.
For information about U.S. savings
bonds, go to T reasuryDirect.gov/
savings-bonds/.
If you prefer, write to:

T reasury Retail Securities Services
P .O. Box 9150
Minneapolis, MN 55480-9150
Accrual method taxpayers. If you use an accrual method of accounting, you must report interest on U.S. savings bonds each year as it accrues. Y ou can’t postpone reporting interest
until you receive it or until the bonds mature. Accrual methods of accounting are explained in
chapter 1 under Accounting Methods.
Cash method taxpayers.  If you use the cash
method of accounting, as most individual taxpayers do, you generally report the interest on
U.S. savings bonds when you receive it. The
cash method of accounting is explained in
chapter 1 under Accounting Methods . But see
Reporting options for cash method taxpayers ,
later.
Series H and HH bonds.  The U.S. T reasury
sold HH savings bonds from 1980 through August 2004. HH savings bonds earn interest for
up to 20 years. So the last HH bonds will stop
earning interest in 2024. (See
T reasuryDirect.gov/savings-bonds/hh-bonds/.)
Certain HH bonds weren’t available for cash
only. T o buy those HH bonds, you had to trade
in another security you had bought earlier. In
making the exchange, you may have used interest the original security had earned to help pay
for the HH bond. If you used an old bond to buy
more than one HH bond, the interest you used
to buy the bonds was divided proportionately
among the HH bonds. Y ou had a choice then for
the tax on that interest: pay it then or wait and
pay it later (defer it). Interest that you decided to
pay later is “deferred interest.” If your HH bond
has deferred interest, you see the amount identified on the front of the bond. Y ou don’t have to
report deferred interest on your federal income
tax return until you are filing your return for the
year in which the first of these events occurs:
you cash the HH bond; the HH bond stops
earning interest; the HH bond is reissued to
show a change in ownership that is a taxable
event. (See T reasuryDirect.gov/savingsbonds/hh-bonds/hh-bonds-tax-information.)
Series H bonds were issued before 1980. All
Series H bonds have matured and are no longer
earning interest.
In addition to the twice -a-year interest payments, most H/HH bonds have a deferred interest component. The reporting of this as income
is addressed later in this chapter.
Series EE and Series I bonds.  Interest on
these bonds is payable when you redeem the
bonds. The difference between the purchase
price and the redemption value is taxable interest.
Series E and EE bonds.  Series E bonds
were issued before July 1980. All Series E
bonds have matured and are no longer earning
interest. Series EE bonds were first offered in
January 1980 and have a maturity period of 30
years; they were offered in paper (definitive)
form until 2012. Paper Series EE and Series E
bonds were issued at a discount and increase
in value as they earn interest. Electronic
(book-entry) Series EE bonds were first offered
in 2003; they are issued at face value and increase in value as they earn interest. For all
Series E and Series EE bonds, the purchase
price plus all accrued interest is payable to you
at redemption.
Series I bonds. Series I bonds were first offered in 1998. These are inflation -indexed
bonds issued at face value with a maturity period of 30 years. Series I bonds increase in
value as they earn interest. The face value plus
all accrued interest is payable to you at redemption.
Page 59 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 6 Interest Income 57

[PAGE 60]
Reporting options for cash method taxpayers. If you use the cash method of reporting income, you can report the interest on Series EE and Series I bonds in either of the
following ways.
1. Method 1. Postpone reporting the interest
until the earlier of the year you cash or dispose of the bonds or the year they mature.
2. Method 2. Choose to report the increase
in redemption value as interest each year.
Y ou must use the same method for all Series EE
and Series I bonds you own.
If you plan to cash your bonds in the
same year you will pay for higher education expenses, you may want to use
method 1 because you may be able to exclude
the interest from your income. T o learn how, see
Education Savings Bond Program, later.
Change from method 1.  If you want to
change your method of reporting the interest
from method 1 to method 2, you can do so without permission from the IRS. In the year of
change, you must report all interest accrued to
date and not previously reported for all your
bonds.
Once you choose to report the interest each
year, you must continue to do so for all Series
EE and Series I bonds you own and for any you
get later, unless you request permission to
change, as explained next.
Change from method 2.  T o change from
method 2 to method 1, see Revenue Procedure
2025-23, section 17.
Co-owners. If a U.S. savings bond is issued in
the names of co -owners, such as you and your
child or you and your spouse, interest on the
bond is generally taxable to the co -owner who
bought the bond.
One co -owner’s funds used.  If you used
your funds to buy the bond, you must pay the
tax on the interest. This is true even if you let the
other co -owner redeem the bond and keep all
the proceeds. Under these circumstances, the
co-owner who redeemed the bond will receive a
Form 1099 -INT at the time of redemption and
must provide you with another Form 1099 -INT
showing the amount of interest from the bond
taxable to you. The co -owner who redeemed
the bond is a “nominee.” See Nominee distributions under How T o Report Interest Income  in
chapter 1 of Pub. 550 for more information
about how a person who is a nominee reports
interest income belonging to another person.
Both co -owners’ funds used.  If you and
the other co -owner each contribute part of the
bond’s purchase price, the interest is generally
TIP
taxable to each of you, in proportion to the
amount each of you paid.
Community property.  If you and your
spouse live in a community property state and
hold bonds as community property, one -half of
the interest is considered received by each of
you. If you file separate returns, each of you
must generally report one-half of the bond interest. For more information about community
property, see Pub. 555.
Table 6-1. These rules are also shown in T able 6-1.
Ownership transferred.  If you bought Series
EE or Series I bonds entirely with your own
funds and had them reissued in your co-owner’s
name or beneficiary’s name alone, you must include in your gross income for the year of reissue all interest that you earned on these bonds
and have not previously reported. But, if the
bonds were reissued in your name alone, you
don’t have to report the interest accrued at that
time.
This same rule applies when bonds (other
than bonds held as community property) are
transferred between spouses or incident to divorce.
Purchased jointly.  If you and a co -owner
each contributed funds to buy Series EE or Series I bonds jointly and later have the bonds reissued in the co -owner’s name alone, you must
include in your gross income for the year of reissue your share of all the interest earned on the
bonds that you have not previously reported.
The former co-owner doesn’t have to include in
gross income at the time of reissue his or her
share of the interest earned that was not reported before the transfer. This interest, however,
as well as all interest earned after the reissue, is
income to the former co-owner.
This income -reporting rule also applies
when a new co -owner purchases your share of
the bond and the bonds are reissued in the
name of your former co -owner and a new
co-owner. But the new co-owner will report only
his or her share of the interest earned after the
transfer.
If bonds that you and a co -owner bought
jointly are reissued to each of you separately in
the same proportion as your contribution to the
purchase price, neither you nor your co -owner
has to report at that time the interest earned before the bonds were reissued.
Example 1.  Y ou and your spouse each
spent an equal amount to buy a $1,000 Series
EE savings bond. The bond was issued to you
and your spouse as co -owners. Y ou both postpone reporting interest on the bond. Y ou later
have the bond reissued as two $500 bonds, one
in your name and one in your spouse’s name. At
that time, neither you nor your spouse has to report the interest earned to the date of reissue.
Example 2. Y ou bought a $1,000 Series EE
savings bond entirely with your own funds. The
bond was issued to you and your spouse as
co-owners. Y ou both postpone reporting interest
on the bond. Y ou later have the bond reissued
as two $500 bonds, one in your name and one
in your spouse’s name. Y ou must report half the
interest earned to the date of reissue.
Transfer to a trust.  If you own Series EE or
Series I bonds and transfer them to a trust, giving up all rights of ownership, you must include
in your income for that year the interest earned
to the date of transfer if you have not already reported it. However, if you are considered the
owner of the trust and if the increase in value
both before and after the transfer continues to
be taxable to you, you can continue to defer reporting the interest earned each year. Y ou must
include the total interest in your income in the
year you cash or dispose of the bonds or the
year the bonds finally mature, whichever is earlier.
The same rules apply to previously unreported interest on Series EE or Series E bonds if
the transfer to a trust consisted of Series HH
bonds you acquired in a trade for the Series EE
or Series E bonds.
Decedents. The manner of reporting interest
income on Series EE or Series I bonds after the
death of the owner (decedent) depends on the
accounting and income -reporting methods previously used by the decedent. This is explained
in chapter 1 of Pub. 550.
Form 1099-INT for U.S. savings bonds interest. When you cash a bond, the bank or other
payer that redeems it may give you a Form
1099-INT . Form 1099-INT , box 3 should show
the interest as the difference between the
amount you received and the amount paid for
the bond. However, your Form 1099 -INT may
show more interest than you have to include on
your income tax return. For example, this may
happen if any of the following are true.
• Y ou chose to report the increase in the redemption value of the bond each year. The
interest shown on your Form 1099-INT
won’t be reduced by amounts previously
included in income.
• Y ou received the bond from a decedent.
The interest shown on your Form 1099-INT
won’t be reduced by any interest reported
by the decedent before death or on the decedent’s final return or by the estate on the
estate’s income tax return.
• Ownership of the bond was transferred.
The interest shown on your Form 1099-INT
won’t be reduced by interest that accrued
before the transfer.
Note: This is true for paper bonds, but
the T reasury reporting process for electronic bonds is more refined—if T reasury is
aware that the transfer of an electronic savings bond is a reportable event, then the
transferor will receive a Form 1099 -INT for
the year of the transfer for the interest accrued up to the time of the transfer; when
the transferee later disposes of the bond
(redemption, maturity, or further transfer),
T able 6-1. Who Pays the Tax on U.S. Savings Bond Interest
IF ... THEN the interest must be reported by...
you buy a bond in your name and the name of another
person as co-owners, using only your own funds
you.
you buy a bond in the name of another person, who is the
sole owner of the bond
the person for whom you bought the bond.
you and another person buy a bond as co-owners, each
contributing part of the purchase price
both you and the other co-owner, in proportion to the
amount each paid for the bond.
you and your spouse, who live in a community property
state, buy a bond that is community property
you and your spouse. If you file separate returns, both you
and your spouse generally report one-half of the interest.
Page 60 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
58 Chapter 6 Interest Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 61]
the transferee will receive a Form 1099-INT
reduced by the amount reported to the
transferor at the time of the original transfer.
• Y ou were named as a co-owner, and the
other co-owner contributed funds to buy
the bond. The interest shown on your Form
1099-INT won’t be reduced by the amount
you received as nominee for the other
co-owner. (See Co-owners, earlier in this
chapter, for more information about the reporting requirements.)
• Y ou received the bond in a taxable distribution from a retirement or profit-sharing
plan. The interest shown on your Form
1099-INT won’t be reduced by the interest
portion of the amount taxable as a distribution from the plan and not taxable as interest. (This amount is generally shown on
Form 1099-R for the year of distribution.)
For more information on including the correct amount of interest on your return, see How
T o Report Interest Income, later.
Interest on U.S. savings bonds is exempt from state and local taxes.
Education Savings Bond
Program
Y ou may be able to exclude from income all or
part of the interest you receive on the redemption of qualified U.S. savings bonds during the
year if you pay qualified higher educational expenses during the same year. This exclusion is
known as the Education Savings Bond Program.
Y ou don’t qualify for this exclusion if your filing status is married filing separately.
Form 8815.  Use Form 8815 to figure your
exclusion. Attach the form to your Form 1040 or
1040-SR.
Qualified U.S. savings bonds.  A qualified
U.S. savings bond is a Series EE bond issued
after 1989 or a Series I bond. The bond must be
issued either in your name (sole owner) or in
your and your spouse’s names (co -owners).
Y ou must be at least 24 years old before the
bond’s issue date. For example, a bond bought
by a parent and issued in the name of his or her
child under age 24 doesn’t qualify for the exclusion by the parent or child.
The issue date of a bond may be earlier than the date the bond is purchased because the issue date assigned to a bond is the first day of the month in
which it is purchased.
Beneficiary. Y ou can designate any individual
(including a child) as a beneficiary of the bond.
Verification by IRS.  If you claim the exclusion, the IRS will check it by using bond redemption information from the Department of
the T reasury.
Qualified expenses.  Qualified higher education expenses are tuition and fees required
for you, your spouse, or your dependent (for
whom you claim an exemption) to attend an eligible educational institution.
TIP
CAUTION
!
Qualified expenses include any contribution
you make to a qualified tuition program or to a
Coverdell education savings account (ESA).
Qualified expenses don’t include expenses
for room and board or for courses involving
sports, games, or hobbies that aren’t part of a
degree- or certificate-granting program.
Eligible educational institutions.  These
institutions include most public, private, and
nonprofit universities, colleges, and vocational
schools that are accredited and eligible to participate in student aid programs run by the U.S.
Department of Education.
Reduction for certain benefits.  Y ou must
reduce your qualified higher education expenses by all of the following tax-free benefits.
1. T ax-free part of scholarships and fellowships (see Scholarships and fellowships in
chapter 8).
2. Expenses used to figure the tax-free portion of distributions from a Coverdell ESA.
3. Expenses used to figure the tax-free portion of distributions from a qualified tuition
program.
4. Any tax-free payments (other than gifts or
inheritances) received for educational expenses, such as:
a. Veterans’ educational assistance benefits,
b. Qualified tuition reductions, or
c. Employer-provided educational assistance.
5. Any expense used in figuring the American opportunity and lifetime learning credits.
Amount excludable.  If the total proceeds
(interest and principal) from the qualified U.S.
savings bonds you redeem during the year
aren’t more than your adjusted qualified higher
education expenses for the year, you may be
able to exclude all of the interest. If the proceeds are more than the expenses, you may be
able to exclude only part of the interest.
T o determine the excludable amount, multiply the interest part of the proceeds by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the qualified higher education expenses you paid during
the year. The denominator of the fraction is the
total proceeds you received during the year.
Example 1.  Max and Helene married and
paid $5,000 in January 2009 for a $10,000 denomination Series EE U.S. savings bond. They
cashed the bond for $6,148 ($5,000 [price] +
$1,148 [interest]) and paid $4,000 of college tuition for their child, Ari, in January 2025. Max
and Helene can exclude $746.90 ($1,148 x
($4,000 ÷ $6,148)) of interest on their 2025 joint
income tax return.
Example 2.  In January 2024, Mark and
Joan, a married couple, cashed qualified Series
EE U.S. savings bonds with a total denomination of $10,000 that they bought in January
2008 for $5,000. They received proceeds of
$8,052, representing principal of $5,000 and interest of $3,052. In 2024, they paid $4,000 of
their daughter’s college tuition. They aren’t
claiming an education credit for that amount,
and their daughter doesn’t have any tax-free educational assistance. They can exclude
$1,516.15 ($3,052 × ($4,000 ÷ $8,052)) of interest on their 2024 joint income tax return.
U.S. Treasury Bills, Notes,
and Bonds
T reasury bills, notes, and bonds are direct debts
(obligations) of the U.S. Government.
Taxation of interest.  Interest income from
T reasury bills, notes, and bonds is subject to
federal income tax but is exempt from all state
and local income taxes. Y ou should receive a
Form 1099-INT showing the interest paid to you
for the year in box 3.
Treasury bills. These bills generally have a
4-week, 8-week, 13-week, 26-week, or 52-week
maturity period. They are generally issued at a
discount in the amount of $100 and multiples of
$100. The difference between the discounted
price you pay for the bills and the face value you
receive at maturity is interest income. Generally,
you report this interest income when the bill is
paid at maturity. If you paid a premium for a bill
(more than the face value), you generally report
the premium as a section 171 deduction when
the bill is paid at maturity.
If you reinvest your T reasury bill at its maturity in a new T reasury bill, note, or bond, you will
receive payment for the difference between the
proceeds of the maturing bill (par amount less
any tax withheld) and the purchase price of the
new T reasury security. However, you must report the full amount of the interest income on
each of your T reasury bills at the time it reaches
maturity.
Treasury notes and bonds. T reasury notes
generally have maturity periods of more than 1
year, ranging up to 10 years. Maturity periods
for T reasury bonds are generally longer than 10
years. Both generally pay interest every 6
months. Generally, you report this interest for
the year paid. For more information, see U.S.
T reasury Bills, Notes, and Bonds in chapter 1 of
Pub. 550.
For other information on T reasury notes
or bonds, write to:
T reasury Retail Securities Services
P .O. Box 9150
Minneapolis, MN 55480-9150
Or, on the Internet, go to
T reasuryDirect.gov/marketablesecurities/.
For information on Series EE, Series I, and
Series HH savings bonds, see U.S. Savings
Bonds, earlier.
Treasury inflation -protected securities
(TIPS). These securities pay interest twice a
year at a fixed rate, based on a principal amount
adjusted to take into account inflation and deflation. For the tax treatment of these securities,
see Inflation-Indexed Debt Instruments  under
Original Issue Discount (OID)  in chapter 1 of
Pub. 550.
Page 61 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 6 Interest Income 59

[PAGE 62]
Bonds Sold Between
Interest Dates
If you sell a bond between interest payment
dates, part of the sales price represents interest
accrued to the date of sale. Y ou must report that
part of the sales price as interest income for the
year of sale.
If you buy a bond between interest payment
dates, part of the purchase price represents interest accrued before the date of purchase.
When that interest is paid to you, treat it as a
nontaxable return of your capital investment,
rather than as interest income. See Accrued interest on bonds  under How T o Report Interest
Income in chapter 1 of Pub. 550 for information
on reporting the payment.
Insurance
Life insurance proceeds paid to you as beneficiary of the insured person are usually not taxable. But if you receive the proceeds in installments, you must usually report a part of each
installment payment as interest income.
For more information about insurance proceeds received in installments, see Pub. 525.
Annuity. If you buy an annuity with life insurance proceeds, the annuity payments you receive are taxed as pension and annuity income
from a nonqualified plan, not as interest income.
See chapter 5  for information on pension and
annuity income from nonqualified plans.
State or Local Government
Obligations
Interest on a bond used to finance government
operations generally isn’t taxable if the bond is
issued by a state, the District of Columbia, a territory of the United States, or any of their political subdivisions.
Bonds issued after 1982 by an Indian tribal
government (including tribal economic development bonds issued after February 17, 2009) are
treated as issued by a state. Interest on these
bonds is generally tax exempt if the bonds are
part of an issue of which substantially all proceeds are to be used in the exercise of any essential government function. However, the essential government function requirement does
not apply to tribal economic development bonds
issued after February 17, 2009. See section
7871(f).
For information on federally guaranteed
bonds, mortgage revenue bonds, arbitrage
bonds, private activity bonds, qualified bonds,
and tax credit bonds, including whether interest
on some of these bonds is taxable, see State or
Local Government Obligations  in chapter 1 of
Pub. 550.
Information reporting requirement. If you file
a tax return, you are required to show any
tax-exempt interest you received on your return.
T ax-exempt interest paid to you will be reported
to you on Form 1099-INT , box 8. This is an information reporting requirement only. It doesn’t
change tax-exempt interest to taxable interest.
Original Issue Discount
(OID)
OID is a form of interest. Y ou generally include
OID in your income as it accrues over the term
of the debt instrument, whether or not you receive any payments from the issuer.
A debt instrument generally has OID when
the instrument is issued for a price that is less
than its stated redemption price at maturity. OID
is the difference between the stated redemption
price at maturity and the issue price.
All debt instruments that pay no interest before maturity are presumed to be issued at a
discount. Zero coupon bonds are one example
of these instruments.
The OID accrual rules generally don’t apply
to short-term obligations (those with a fixed maturity date of 1 year or less from date of issue).
See Discount on Short -T erm Obligations in
chapter 1 of Pub. 550.
De minimis OID. Y ou can treat the discount as
zero if it is less than one -fourth of 1% (0. 0025)
of the stated redemption price at maturity multiplied by the number of full years from the date
of original issue to maturity. This small discount
is known as de minimis OID.
Example 1.  Y ou bought a 10 -year bond
with a stated redemption price at maturity of
$1,000, issued at $980 with OID of $20.
One-fourth of 1% of $1,000 (stated redemption
price) times 10 (the number of full years from
the date of original issue to maturity) equals
$25. Because the $20 discount is less than $25,
the OID is treated as zero. (If you hold the bond
at maturity, you will recognize $20 ($1,000 −
$980) of capital gain.)
Example 2.  The facts are the same as in
Example 1, except that the bond was issued at
$950. The OID is $50. Because the $50 discount is more than the $25 figured in Example 1, you must include the OID in income as it
accrues over the term of the bond.
Debt instrument bought after original issue. If you buy a debt instrument with de minimis OID at a premium, the de minimis OID isn’t
includible in income. If you buy a debt instrument with de minimis OID at a discount, the discount is reported under the market discount
rules. See Market Discount Bonds  in chapter 1
of Pub. 550.
Exceptions to reporting OID as current income. The OID rules discussed in this chapter
don’t apply to the following debt instruments.
1. T ax-exempt obligations. (However, see
Stripped tax-exempt obligations under
Stripped Bonds and Coupons in chapter 1
of Pub. 550.)
2. U.S. savings bonds.
3. Short-term debt instruments (those with a
fixed maturity date of not more than 1 year
from the date of issue).
4. Loans between individuals if all the following are true.
a. The loan is not made in the course of
a trade or business of the lender.
b. The amount of the loan, plus the
amount of any outstanding prior loans
between the same individuals, is
$10,000 or less.
c. Avoiding any federal tax isn’t one of
the principal purposes of the loan.
5. A debt instrument purchased at a premium.
Form 1099 -OID. Y ou may receive a Form
1099-OID for a debt instrument you own. If you
receive a Form 1099 -OID (Rev. 1-2024), box 1
will show any “Original issue discount for the
year”; box 2 will show any “Other periodic interest”; and box 8 will show any “Original issue discount on U.S. T reasury obligations.”
In most cases, you must report the entire
amount in Form 1099-OID, boxes 1, 2, and 8 as
interest income. But see Refiguring OID shown
on Form 1099 -OID, later in this discussion, for
more information.
Form 1099-OID not received.  If you had OID
for the year but didn’t receive a Form 1099 -OID,
you may have to figure the correct amount of
OID to report on your return. See Pub. 1212 for
details on how to figure the correct OID.
Nominee. If someone else is the record
holder (the registered owner) of an OID instrument belonging to you and receives a Form
1099-OID on your behalf, that person must give
you a Form 1099-OID.
Refiguring OID shown on Form 1099 -OID.
Y ou may need to refigure the OID shown in
Form 1099-OID, box 1 or box 8 if either of the
following applies.
• Y ou bought the debt instrument after its
original issue and paid a premium or an acquisition premium.
• The debt instrument is a stripped bond or a
stripped coupon (including certain zero
coupon instruments).
See Pub. 1212 and Form 1099-OID for information regarding figuring the correct amount of
OID to include on your income tax return.
Refiguring periodic interest shown on Form
1099-OID. If you disposed of a debt instrument
or acquired it from another holder during the
year, see Bonds Sold Between Interest Dates ,
earlier, for information about the treatment of
periodic interest that may be shown in Form
1099-OID, box 2 for that instrument.
Certificates of deposit (CDs). A CD is a debt
instrument. If you buy a CD with a maturity of
more than 1 year, you must include in income
each year a part of the total interest due and report it in the same manner as other OID.
This also applies to similar deposit arrangements with banks, building and loan associations, etc., including:
• Time deposits,
• Bonus plans,
• Savings certificates,
• Deferred income certificates,
• Bonus savings certificates, and
• Growth savings certificates.
Bearer CDs.  CDs issued after 1982 must
generally be in registered form. Bearer CDs are
Page 62 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
60 Chapter 6 Interest Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 63]
CDs not in registered form. They aren’t issued
in the depositor’s name and are transferable
from one individual to another.
Banks must provide the IRS and the person
redeeming a bearer CD with a Form 1099-INT .
More information. See chapter 1 of Pub. 550
for more information about OID and related topics, such as market discount bonds.
When To Report
Interest Income
When to report your interest income depends
on whether you use the cash method or an accrual method to report income.
Cash method.  Most individual taxpayers use
the cash method. If you use this method, you
generally report your interest income in the year
in which you actually or constructively receive it.
However, there are special rules for reporting
the discount on certain debt instruments. See
U.S. Savings Bonds  and Original Issue Discount (OID), earlier.
Example. On August 31, 2023, you loaned
another individual $2,000 at 4% interest, compounded annually. Y ou aren’t in the business of
lending money. The note stated that principal
and interest would be due on August 30, 2025.
In 2025, you received $2,163.20 ($2,000 principal and $163.20 interest). If you use the cash
method, you must include in income on your
2025 return the $163.20 interest you received in
that year.
Constructive receipt. Y ou constructively receive income when it is credited to your account
or made available to you. Y ou don’t need to
have physical possession of it. For example,
you are considered to receive interest, dividends, or other earnings on any deposit or account in a bank, savings and loan, or similar financial institution, or interest on life insurance
policy dividends left to accumulate, when they
are credited to your account and subject to your
withdrawal.
Y ou constructively receive income on the deposit or account even if you must:
• Make withdrawals in multiples of even
amounts;
• Give a notice to withdraw before making
the withdrawal;
• Withdraw all or part of the account to withdraw the earnings; or
• Pay a penalty on early withdrawals, unless
the interest you are to receive on an early
withdrawal or redemption is substantially
less than the interest payable at maturity.
Accrual method.  If you use an accrual
method, you report your interest income when
you earn it, whether or not you have received it.
Interest is earned over the term of the debt instrument.
Example. If, in the previous example, you
use an accrual method, you must include the interest in your income as you earn it. Y ou would
report the interest as follows: 2023, $26. 67;
2024, $81.06; and 2025, $55.47.
Coupon bonds. Interest on bearer bonds with
detachable coupons is generally taxable in the
year the coupon becomes due and payable. It
doesn’t matter when you mail the coupon for
payment.
How To Report Interest
Income
Generally, you report all your taxable interest income on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2b.
Schedule B (Form 1040).  Y ou must complete Schedule B (Form 1040), Part I, if you file
Form 1040 or 1040-SR and any of the following
apply.
1. Y our taxable interest income is more than
$1,500.
2. Y ou are claiming the interest exclusion under the Education Savings Bond Program
(discussed earlier).
3. Y ou received interest from a seller-financed mortgage, and the buyer used the
property as a home.
4. Y ou received a Form 1099-INT for U.S.
savings bond interest that includes
amounts you reported in a previous tax
year.
5. Y ou received, as a nominee, interest that
actually belongs to someone else.
6. Y ou received a Form 1099-INT for interest
on frozen deposits.
7. Y ou received a Form 1099-INT for interest
on a bond you bought between interest
payment dates.
8. Y ou are reporting OID in an amount less
than the amount shown on Form
1099-OID.
9. Y ou reduce interest income from bonds by
amortizable bond premium.
In Part I, line 1, list each payer’s name and the
amount received from each. If you received a
Form 1099 -INT or Form 1099 -OID from a brokerage firm, list the brokerage firm as the payer.
The box references discussed below
are from the January 2024 revisions of
Form 1099 -INT and Form 1099 -DIV .
Later revisions may have different box references.
Reporting tax -exempt interest.  T otal your
tax-exempt interest (such as interest or accrued
OID on certain state and municipal bonds, including zero coupon municipal bonds) reported
on Form 1099 -INT , box 8; Form 1099 -OID,
box 11; and exempt -interest dividends from a
mutual fund or other regulated investment company reported on Form 1099 -DIV , box 12. Add
these amounts to any other tax -exempt interest
you received. Report the total on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 2a.
Form 1099-INT , box 9, and Form 1099 -DIV ,
box 13, show the tax -exempt interest subject to
the AMT on Form 6251. These amounts are already included in the amounts on Form
1099-INT , box 8, and Form 1099 -DIV , box 12.
Don’t add the amounts in Form 1099 -INT , box 9
and Form 1099-DIV , box 13 to or subtract them
CAUTION
!
from the amounts on Form 1099 -INT , box 8 and
Form 1099-DIV , box 12.
Don’t report interest from an IRA as
tax-exempt interest.
Form 1099 -INT. Y our taxable interest income,
except for interest from U.S. savings bonds and
T reasury obligations, is shown in Form
1099-INT , box 1. Add this amount to any other
taxable interest income you received. See the
Form 1099-INT Instructions for Recipient if you
have interest from a security acquired at a premium. Y ou must report all of your taxable interest income even if you don’t receive a Form
1099-INT . Contact your financial institution if
you don’t receive a Form 1099 -INT by February
15. Y our identifying number may be truncated
on any Form 1099-INT you receive.
If you forfeited interest income because of
the early withdrawal of a time deposit, the deductible amount will be shown on Form
1099-INT , box 2. See Penalty on early withdrawal of savings in chapter 1 of Pub. 550.
Form 1099-INT , box 3 shows the interest income you received from U.S. savings bonds,
T reasury bills, T reasury notes, and T reasury
bonds. Generally, add the amount shown in
Form 1099-INT , box 3 to any other taxable interest income you received. If part of the amount
shown in Form 1099 -INT , box 3 was previously
included in your interest income, see U.S. savings bond interest previously reported , later. If
you acquired the security at a premium, see the
Form 1099-INT Instructions for Recipient.
Form 1099-INT , box 4 will contain an amount
if you were subject to backup withholding. Include the amount from box 4 on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 25b (federal income tax withheld).
Form 1099-INT , box 5 shows investment expenses. This amount is not deductible.
Form 1099 -INT , box 6 shows foreign tax
paid. Y ou may be able to claim this tax as a deduction or a credit on your Form 1040 or
1040-SR. See your tax return instructions.
Form 1099 -INT , box 7 shows the foreign
country or U.S. territory to which the foreign tax
was paid.
U.S. savings bond interest previously reported. If you received a Form 1099 -INT for
U.S. savings bond interest, the form may show
interest you don’t have to report. See Form
1099-INT for U.S. savings bonds interest , earlier.
On Schedule B (Form 1040), Part I, line 1,
report all the interest shown on your Form
1099-INT . Then follow these steps.
1. Several rows above line 2, enter a subtotal
of all interest listed on line 1.
2. Below the subtotal, enter “U.S. Savings
Bond Interest Previously Reported” and
enter amounts previously reported or interest accrued before you received the bond.
3. Subtract these amounts from the subtotal
and enter the result on line 2.
More information. For more information about
how to report interest income, see chapter 1 of
Pub. 550 or the instructions for the form you
must file.
CAUTION
!
Page 63 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 6 Interest Income 61

[PAGE 64]
7.
Social Security
and Equivalent
Railroad
Retirement
Benefits
Reminders
Lines 1a through 1z on Forms 1040 and
1040-SR. Line 1 was expanded and there are
lines 1a through 1z. Some amounts that in prior
years were reported on Form 1040, and some
amounts reported on Form 1040 -SR, are now
reported on Schedule 1.
• Scholarships and fellowship grants are
now reported on Schedule 1, line 8r.
• Pension or annuity from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or a nongovernmental section 457 plan is now reported on
Schedule 1, line 8t.
• Wages earned while incarcerated are now
reported on Schedule 1, line 8u.
Form 1040 and 1040 -SR have changed
line 6.  Line 6c includes a checkbox for
Lump-Sum Election. See Lump-Sum Election in
Pub. 915, Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement Benefits, for details. If you are
married filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025, check the box
on line 6d.
Introduction
This chapter explains the federal income tax
rules for social security benefits and equivalent
tier 1 railroad retirement benefits. It explains the
following topics.
• How to figure whether your benefits are
taxable.
• How to report your taxable benefits.
• How to use the Social Security Benefits
Worksheet (with examples).
• Deductions related to your benefits and
how to treat repayments that are more than
the benefits you received during the year.
Social security benefits include monthly retirement, survivor, and disability benefits. They
don’t include Supplemental Security Income
(SSI) payments, which aren’t taxable.
Equivalent tier 1 railroad retirement benefits
are the part of tier 1 benefits that a railroad employee or beneficiary would have been entitled
to receive under the social security system.
They are commonly called the social security
equivalent benefit (SSEB) portion of tier 1 benefits.
If you received these benefits during 2025,
you should have received a Form SSA -1099,
Social Security Benefit Statement; or Form
RRB-1099, Payments by the Railroad Retirement Board. These forms show the amounts received and repaid, and taxes withheld for the
year. Y ou may receive more than one of these
forms for the same year. Y ou should add the
amounts shown on all the Forms SSA-1099 and
Forms RRB-1099 you receive for the year to determine the total amounts received and repaid,
and taxes withheld for that year. See the Appendix at the end of Pub. 915 for more information.
Note: When the term “benefits” is used in
this chapter, it applies to both social security
benefits and the SSEB portion of tier 1 railroad
retirement benefits.
my Social Security  account. Social security
beneficiaries may quickly and easily obtain information from the SSA’s website with a my Social Security account to:
• Keep track of your earnings and verify
them every year,
• Get an estimate of your future benefits if
you are still working,
• Get a letter with proof of your benefits if
you currently receive them,
• Change your address,
• Start or change your direct deposit,
• Get a replacement Medicare card, and
• Get a replacement Form SSA-1099 for the
tax season.
For more information and to set up an account,
go to SSA.gov/myaccount.
What isn’t covered in this chapter.  This
chapter doesn’t cover the tax rules for the following railroad retirement benefits.
• Non-social security equivalent benefit
(NSSEB) portion of tier 1 benefits.
• Tier 2 benefits.
• Vested dual benefits.
• Supplemental annuity benefits.
For information on these benefits, see Pub. 575,
Pension and Annuity Income.
This chapter doesn’t cover the tax rules for
social security benefits reported on Form
SSA-1042S, Social Security Benefit Statement;
or Form RRB -1042S, Statement for Nonresident Alien Recipients of Payments by the Railroad Retirement Board. For information about
these benefits, see Pub. 519, U.S. T ax Guide for
Aliens; and Pub. 915.
This chapter also doesn’t cover the tax rules
for foreign social security benefits. These benefits are taxable as annuities, unless they are exempt from U.S. tax or treated as a U.S. social
security benefit under a tax treaty.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
501 Dependents, Standard Deduction,
and Filing Information
  501
505 T ax Withholding and Estimated T ax
519 U.S. T ax Guide for Aliens
575 Pension and Annuity Income
590-A Contributions to Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)
915 Social Security and Equivalent
Railroad Retirement Benefits
Form (and Instructions)
1040-ES Estimated T ax for Individuals
SSA-1099 Social Security Benefit
Statement
RRB-1099 Payments by the Railroad
Retirement Board
W-4V Voluntary Withholding Request
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
Are Any of Your
Benefits Taxable?
T o find out whether any of your benefits may be
taxable, compare the base amount  (explained
later) for your filing status with the total of:
1. One-half of your benefits; plus
2. All your other income, including tax-exempt interest.
Exclusions. When making this comparison,
don’t reduce your other income by any exclusions for:
• Interest from qualified U.S. savings bonds,
• Employer-provided adoption benefits,
• Interest on education loans,
• Foreign earned income or foreign housing,
or
• Income earned by bona fide residents of
American Samoa or Puerto Rico.
Children’s benefits. The rules in this chapter
apply to benefits received by children. See Who
is taxed, later.
Figuring total income.  T o figure the total of
one-half of your benefits plus your other income, use Worksheet 7 -1, discussed later. If
the total is more than your base amount, part of
your benefits may be taxable.
If you are married and file a joint return for
2025, you and your spouse must combine your
incomes and your benefits to figure whether any
of your combined benefits are taxable. Even if
your spouse didn’t receive any benefits, you
must add your spouse’s income to yours to figure whether any of your benefits are taxable.
If the only income you received during
2025 was your social security or the
SSEB portion of tier 1 railroad retirement benefits, your benefits generally aren’t taxable and you probably don’t have to file a return.
If you have income in addition to your benefits,
you may have to file a return even if none of
your benefits are taxable. See Do I Have T o File
a Return? in chapter 1, earlier; Pub. 501; or your
  505
  519
  575
  590-A
  915
  1040-ES
  SSA-1099
  RRB-1099
  W-4V
TIP
Page 64 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
62 Chapter 7 Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement
Benefits
Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 65]
tax return instructions to find out if you have to
file a return.
Base amount. Y our base amount is:
• $25,000 if you are single, head of household, or qualifying surviving spouse;
• $25,000 if you are married filing separately
and lived apart from your spouse for all of
2025;
• $32,000 if you are married filing jointly; or
• $0 if you are married filing separately and
lived with your spouse at any time during
2025.
Worksheet 7-1. Y ou can use Worksheet 7-1 to
figure the amount of income to compare with
your base amount. This is a quick way to check
whether some of your benefits may be taxable.
Worksheet 7-1. A Quick Way To Check if Your
Benefits May Be Taxable
Note: If you plan to file a joint income tax return,
include your spouse's amounts, if any, on lines
A, C, and D.
A. Enter the total amount from
box 5 of all your Forms
SSA-1099 and RRB-1099.
Include the full amount of
any lump-sum benefit
payments received in 2025,
for 2025 and earlier years.
(If you received more than
one form, combine the
amounts from box 5 and
enter the total.) ....... A.
Note: If the amount on line A is zero or less,
stop here; none of your benefits are taxable this
year.
B. Multiply line A by 50%
(0.50) ............. B.
C. Enter your total income that
is taxable (excluding line A),
such as pensions, wages,
interest, ordinary dividends,
and capital gain
distributions. Don’t reduce
your income by any
deductions, exclusions
(listed earlier), or
exemptions .......... C.
D. Enter any tax-exempt
interest income, such as
interest on municipal
bonds ............. D.
E. Add lines B, C, and D .... E.
Note: Compare the amount on line E to your
base amount for your filing status. If the
amount on line E equals or is less than the base
amount for your filing status, none of your
benefits are taxable this year. If the amount on
line E is more than your base amount, some of
your benefits may be taxable and you will need
to complete Worksheet 1 in Pub. 915 (or the
Social Security Benefits Worksheet in your tax
form instructions). If none of your benefits are
taxable, but you must otherwise file a tax return,
see Benefits not taxable, later, under How T o
Report Y our Benefits.
Example. Y ou are over 65 and are filing a
single return for 2025 and you received social
security benefits during the year. In January
2026, you received a Form SSA -1099 showing
net benefits of $1,500 in box 5. Y ou also received a taxable pension of $17,000 and interest income of $700. Y ou didn’t have any tax-exempt interest income. Y our benefits aren’t
taxable for 2025 because your income, as figured in Worksheet 7 -1, isn’t more than your
base amount ($25,000) for single.
Even though none of your benefits are taxable, you must file a return for 2025 because your
taxable gross income ($18,450) exceeds the
minimum filing requirement amount for your filing status.
Filled-in Worksheet 7-1. A Quick Way To
Check if Your Benefits May Be Taxable
Note: If you plan to file a joint income tax return,
include your spouse's amounts, if any, on lines
A, C, and D.
A. Enter the total amount from
box 5 of all your Forms
SSA-1099 and RRB-1099.
Include the full amount of
any lump-sum benefit
payments received in 2025,
for 2025 and earlier years.
(If you received more than
one form, combine the
amounts from box 5 and
enter the total.) ....... A. $1,500
Note: If the amount on line A is zero or less,
stop here; none of your benefits are taxable this
year.
B. Multiply line A by 50%
(0.50) ............. B. 750
C. Enter your total income that
is taxable (excluding line A),
such as pensions, wages,
interest, ordinary dividends,
and capital gain
distributions. Don’t reduce
your income by any
deductions, exclusions
(listed earlier), or
exemptions .......... C. 17,700
D. Enter any tax-exempt
interest income, such as
interest on municipal
bonds ............ D. -0E. Add lines B, C, and D ... E. $18,450
Note: Compare the amount on line E to your
base amount for your filing status. If the
amount on line E equals or is less than the base
amount for your filing status, none of your
benefits are taxable this year. If the amount on
line E is more than your base amount, some of
your benefits may be taxable and you will need
to complete Worksheet 1 in Pub. 915 (or the
Social Security Benefits Worksheet in your tax
form instructions). If none of your benefits are
taxable, but you otherwise must file a tax return,
see Benefits not taxable, later, under How T o
Report Y our Benefits.
Who is taxed. Benefits are included in the taxable income (to the extent they are taxable) of
the person who has the legal right to receive the
benefits. For example, if you and your child receive benefits, but the check for your child is
made out in your name, you must use only your
part of the benefits to see whether any benefits
are taxable to you. One -half of the part that belongs to your child must be added to your child’s
other income to see whether any of those benefits are taxable to your child.
Repayment of benefits.  Any repayment of
benefits you made during 2025 must be subtracted from the gross benefits you received in
2025. It doesn’t matter whether the repayment
was for a benefit you received in 2025 or in an
earlier year. If you repaid more than the gross
benefits you received in 2025, see Repayments
More Than Gross Benefits, later.
Y our gross benefits are shown in box 3 of
Form SSA-1099 or RRB-1099. Y our repayments
are shown in box 4. The amount in box 5 shows
your net benefits for 2025 (box 3 minus box 4).
Use the amount in box 5 to figure whether any
of your benefits are taxable.
Tax withholding and estimated tax.  Y ou can
choose to have federal income tax withheld
from your social security benefits and/or the
SSEB portion of your tier 1 railroad retirement
benefits. If you choose to do this, you must
complete a Form W-4V .
If you don’t choose to have income tax withheld, you may have to request additional withholding from other income or pay estimated tax
during the year. For details, see chapter 4, earlier; Pub. 505; or the Instructions for Form
1040-ES.
How To Report Your
Benefits
If part of your benefits are taxable, you must use
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Reporting on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. Report
your net benefits (the total amount from box 5 of
all your Forms SSA -1099 and RRB -1099) on
line 6a and the taxable part on line 6b. If you are
married filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025, check the box
on line 6d.
Benefits not taxable. Report your net benefits
(the total amount from box 5 of all your Forms
SSA-1099 and RRB -1099) on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 6a. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 6b. If you are married filing separately and lived apart from your spouse the entire year, check the box on line 6d of Form 1040
or 1040-SR and see Instructions for Form 1040.
How Much Is Taxable?
If part of your benefits are taxable, how much is
taxable depends on the total amount of your
benefits and other income. Generally, the higher
that total amount, the greater the taxable part of
your benefits.
Maximum taxable part.  Generally, up to 50%
of your benefits will be taxable. However, up to
Page 65 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 7 Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement
Benefits
63

[PAGE 66]
85% of your benefits can be taxable if either of
the following situations applies to you.
• The total of one-half of your benefits and all
your other income is more than $34,000
($44,000 if you are married filing jointly).
• Y ou are married filing separately and lived
with your spouse at any time during 2025.
Which worksheet to use.  A worksheet you
can use to figure your taxable benefits is in the
Instructions for Form 1040. Y ou can use either
that worksheet or Worksheet 1 in Pub. 915, unless any of the following situations applies to
you.
1. Y ou contributed to a traditional individual
retirement arrangement (IRA) and you or
your spouse is covered by a retirement
plan at work. In this situation, you must
use the special worksheets in Appendix B
of Pub. 590-A to figure both your IRA deduction and your taxable benefits.
2. Situation 1 doesn’t apply and you take an
exclusion for interest from qualified U.S.
savings bonds (Form 8815), for adoption
benefits (Form 8839), for foreign earned
income or housing (Form 2555), or for income earned in American Samoa (Form
4563) or Puerto Rico by bona fide residents. In this situation, you must use
Worksheet 1 in Pub. 915 to figure your taxable benefits.
3. Y ou received a lump-sum payment for an
earlier year. In this situation, also complete
Worksheet 2 or 3 and Worksheet 4 in Pub.
915. See Lump-sum election next.
Lump-sum election. Y ou must include the taxable part of a lump -sum (retroactive) payment
of benefits received in 2025 in your 2025 income, even if the payment includes benefits for
an earlier year.
Check the box on Form 1040, or Form
1040-SR, line 6c, if you elect to use the
lump-sum election method for your
benefits. If any of your benefits are taxable for
2025 and they include a lump -sum benefit payment that was for an earlier year, you may be
able to reduce the taxable amount with the
lump-sum election. See Lump-Sum Election  in
Pub. 915 for details.
This type of lump -sum benefit payment
shouldn’t be confused with the
lump-sum death benefit that both the
SSA and RRB pay to many of their beneficiaries. No part of the lump -sum death benefit is
subject to tax.
Generally, you use your 2025 income to figure the taxable part of the total benefits received in 2025. However, you may be able to
figure the taxable part of a lump -sum payment
for an earlier year separately, using your income
for the earlier year. Y ou can elect this method if
it lowers your taxable benefits.
Making the election.  If you received a
lump-sum benefit payment in 2025 that includes
benefits for one or more earlier years, follow the
instructions in Pub. 915 under Lump-Sum Election to see whether making the election will
lower your taxable benefits. That discussion
also explains how to make the election.
TIP
TIP
Because the earlier year’s taxable benefits are included in your 2025 income,
no adjustment is made to the earlier
year's return. Don’t file an amended return for
the earlier year.
Examples
The following are a few examples you can use
as a guide to figure the taxable part of your benefits.
Example 1.  Y ou are single and file Form
1040 for 2025. Y ou received the following income in 2025.
Fully taxable pension ........ $18,600
Wages from part-time job .....  9,400
T axable interest income ...... 990
T otal .................. $28,990
Y ou also received social security benefits
during 2025. The Form SSA -1099 you received
in January 2026 shows $5,980 in box 5. T o figure your taxable benefits, you complete the
worksheet shown here.
Filled-in Worksheet 1.
Figuring Your Taxable Benefits
1. Enter the total amount from
box 5 of all your Forms
SSA-1099 and RRB-1099. Also
enter this amount on Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 6a ....... $5,980
2. Multiply line 1 by 50% (0.50) ....... 2,990
3. Combine the amounts from Form 1040
or 1040-SR, lines 1z, 2b, 3b, 4b, 5b, 7a,
and 8 ................... 28,990
4. Enter the amount, if any, from Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a ........ -05. Enter the total of any exclusions/
adjustments for:
• Adoption benefits (Form 8839,
line 30),
• Foreign earned income or housing
(Form 2555, lines 45 and 50), and
• Certain income of bona fide
residents of American Samoa
(Form 4563, line 15) or Puerto
Rico ........ ........ -06. Combine lines 2, 3, 4, and 5 above ... 31,980
7. Enter the total of the amounts from
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), lines 11
through 20, and 23 and 25 ........ -08. Is the amount on line 7 less than the
amount on line 6?
No.
STOP None of your social security
benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b.
Yes. Subtract line 7 from line 6 ..... 31,980
9. If you are:
• Married filing jointly, enter
$32,000; or
• Single, head of household,
qualifying surviving spouse, or
married filing separately and you
lived apart from your spouse for
all of 2025, enter $25,000 .. .. 25,000
CAUTION
!
Note: If you are married filing separately
and you lived with your spouse at any
time in 2025, skip lines 9 through 16,
multiply line 8 by 85% (0.85), and enter
the result on line 17. Then, go to line 18.
10. Is the amount on line 9 less than the
amount on line 8?
No.
STOP None of your benefits are
taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 6b. If you are married
filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025, check
the box on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 6d.
Yes. Subtract line 9 from line 8 ..... 6,980
11. Enter $12,000 if married filing jointly; or
$9,000 if single, head of household,
qualifying surviving spouse, or married
filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025 ..... 9,000
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or
less, enter -0- ............... -0-
13. Enter the smaller of line 10
or line 11 ................. 6,980
14. Multiply line 13 by 50% (0.50) ...... 3,490
15. Enter the smaller of line 2 or line 14 .. 2,990
16. Multiply line 12 by 85% (0.85). If line 12
is zero, enter -0- ............. -0-
17. Add lines 15 and 16 ........... 2,990
18. Multiply line 1 by 85% (0.85) ....... 5,083
19. Taxable benefits. Enter the smaller of
line 17 or line 18. Also enter this amount
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b ... $2,990
The amount on line 19 of your worksheet
shows that $2,990 of your social security benefits are taxable. On line 6a of your Form 1040,
you enter your net benefits of $5,980. On
line 6b, you enter your taxable benefits of
$2,990.
Example 2.  Casey and Pat Hopkins file a
joint return on Form 1040 for 2025. Casey is retired and received a fully taxable pension of
$15,500. Casey also received social security
benefits, and Casey’s Form SSA -1099 for 2025
shows net benefits of $5,600 in box 5. Pat
worked during the year and had wages of
$14,000. Pat made a deductible payment to
Pat’s IRA account of $1,000 and isn’t covered
by a retirement plan at work. Casey and Pat
have two savings accounts with a total of $250
in taxable interest income. They complete
Worksheet 1, shown below, entering $29,750
($15,500 + $14,000 + $250) on line 3. They find
none of Casey’s social security benefits are taxable. On Form 1040, they enter $5,600 on
line 6a and -0- on line 6b.
Page 66 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
64 Chapter 7 Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement
Benefits
Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 67]
Filled-in Worksheet 1.
Figuring Your Taxable Benefits
1. Enter the total amount from
box 5 of all your Forms
SSA-1099 and RRB-1099. Also
enter this amount on Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 6a ....... $5,600
2. Multiply line 1 by 50% (0.50) ... 2,800
3. Combine the amounts from Form
1040 or 1040-SR, lines 1z, 2b,
3b, 4b, 5b, 7a, and 8 ....... 29,750
4. Enter the amount, if any, from
Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 2a ............... -05. Enter the total of any exclusions/
adjustments for:
• Adoption benefits (Form 8839,
line 30),
• Foreign earned income or housing
(Form 2555, lines 45 and 50), and
• Certain income of bona fide
residents of American Samoa
(Form 4563, line 15) or Puerto
Rico ........ ........ -06. Combine lines 2, 3, 4, and 5
above ............... 32,550
7. Enter the total of the amounts
from Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
lines 11 through 20, and 23 and
25 ................. 1,000
8. Is the amount on line 7 less than the
amount on line 6?
No.
STOP None of your social security
benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b.
Yes. Subtract line 7 from
line 6 ............... 31,550
9. If you are:
• Married filing jointly, enter
$32,000; or
• Single, head of household,
qualifying surviving spouse, or
married filing separately and you
lived apart from your spouse for
all of 2025, enter $25,000 .. .. 32,000
Note: If you are married filing separately
and you lived with your spouse at any
time in 2025, skip lines 9 through 16,
multiply line 8 by 85% (0.85), and enter
the result on line 17. Then, go to line 18.
10. Is the amount on line 9 less than the
amount on line 8?
No.
STOP None of your benefits are
taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 6b. If you are married
filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025, check
the box on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 6d.
Yes. Subtract line 9 from line 8 .....
11. Enter $12,000 if married filing jointly; or
$9,000 if single, head of household,
qualifying surviving spouse, or married
filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025 .....
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or
less, enter -0- ...............
13. Enter the smaller of line 10
or line 11 .................
14. Multiply line 13 by 50% (0.50) ......
15. Enter the smaller of line 2 or line 14 ..
16. Multiply line 12 by 85% (0.85). If line 12
is zero, enter -0- .............
17. Add lines 15 and 16 ...........
18. Multiply line 1 by 85% (0.85) .......
19. Taxable benefits. Enter the smaller of
line 17 or line 18. Also enter this amount
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b ...
Example 3. Jamie and Jessie Johnson file
a joint return on Form 1040 for 2025. Jamie is a
retired railroad worker and in 2025 received the
SSEB portion of tier 1 railroad retirement benefits. Jamie’s Form RRB -1099 shows $10,000 in
box 5. Jessie is a retired government worker
and received a fully taxable pension of $38,000.
They had $2,300 in taxable interest income plus
interest of $200 on a qualified U.S. savings
bond. The savings bond interest qualified for
the exclusion. They figure their taxable benefits
by completing Worksheet 1, shown below. Because they have qualified U.S. savings bond interest, they follow the note at the beginning of
the worksheet and use the amount from line 2 of
their Schedule B (Form 1040) on line 3 of the
worksheet instead of the amount from line 2b of
their Form 1040. On line 3 of the worksheet,
they enter $40,500 ($38,000 + $2,500).
Filled-in Worksheet 1.
Figuring Your Taxable Benefits
Before you begin:
• If you are married filing separately and you lived
apart from your spouse for all of 2025, check
the box on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6d.
• Don’t use this worksheet if you repaid benefits
in 2025 and your total repayments (box 4 of
Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099) were more
than your gross benefits for 2025 (box 3 of
Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099). None of your
benefits are taxable for 2025. For more
information, see Repayments More Than Gross
Benefits, later.
• If you are filing Form 8815, Exclusion of Interest
From Series EE and I U.S. Savings Bonds
Issued After 1989, don’t include the amount
from line 2b of Form 1040 or 1040-SR on line 3
of this worksheet. Instead, include the amount
from Schedule B (Form 1040), line 2.
1. Enter the total amount from
box 5 of all your Forms
SSA-1099 and RRB-1099. Also
enter this amount on Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 6a ....... $10,000
2. Multiply line 1 by 50% (0.50) ....... 5,000
3. Combine the amounts from Form 1040
or 1040-SR, lines 1z, 2b, 3b, 4b, 5b, 7a,
and 8 ................... 40,500
4. Enter the amount, if any, from Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a ........ -05. Enter the total of any exclusions/
adjustments for:
• Adoption benefits (Form 8839,
line 30),
• Foreign earned income or housing
(Form 2555, lines 45 and 50), and
• Certain income of bona fide
residents of American Samoa
(Form 4563, line 15) or Puerto
Rico ........ ........ -06. Combine lines 2, 3, 4, and 5 above ... 45,500
7. Enter the total of the amounts from
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), lines 11
through 20, and 23 and 25 ........ -08. Is the amount on line 7 less than the
amount on line 6?
No.
STOP None of your social security
benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b.
Yes. Subtract line 7 from line 6 ..... 45,500
9. If you are:
• Married filing jointly, enter
$32,000; or
• Single, head of household,
qualifying surviving spouse, or
married filing separately and you
lived apart from your spouse for
all of 2025, enter $25,000 .. .. 32,000
Page 67 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 7 Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement
Benefits
65

[PAGE 68]
Note: If you are married filing separately
and you lived with your spouse at any
time in 2025, skip lines 9 through 16,
multiply line 8 by 85% (0.85), and enter
the result on line 17. Then, go to line 18.
10. Is the amount on line 9 less than the
amount on line 8?
No.
STOP None of your benefits are
taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 6b. If you are married
filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025, check
the box on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 6d.
Yes. Subtract line 9 from line 8 ..... 13,500
11. Enter $12,000 if married filing jointly; or
$9,000 if single, head of household,
qualifying surviving spouse, or married
filing separately and you lived apart
from your spouse for all of 2025 ..... 12,000
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or
less, enter -0- ...............  1,500
13. Enter the smaller of line 10
or line 11 ................. 12,000
14. Multiply line 13 by 50% (0.50) ...... 6,000
15. Enter the smaller of line 2 or line 14 .. 5,000
16. Multiply line 12 by 85% (0.85). If line 12
is zero, enter -0- ............. 1,275
17. Add lines 15 and 16 ........... 6,275
18. Multiply line 1 by 85% (0.85) ....... 8,500
19. Taxable benefits. Enter the smaller of
line 17 or line 18. Also enter this amount
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b ... $6,275
More than 50% of Jamie’s net benefits are
taxable because the income on line 8 of the
worksheet ($45,500) is more than $44,000.
(See Maximum taxable part under How Much Is
T axable, earlier.) Jamie and Jessie enter
$10,000 on Form 1040, line 6a; and $6,275 on
Form 1040, line 6b.
Deductions Related to
Your Benefits
Y ou may be entitled to deduct certain amounts
related to the benefits you receive.
Disability payments.  Y ou may have received
disability payments from your employer or an insurance company that you included as income
on your tax return in an earlier year. If you received a lump -sum payment from the SSA or
RRB, and you had to repay the employer or insurance company for the disability payments,
you can take an itemized deduction for the part
of the payments you included in gross income
in the earlier year. If the amount you repay is
more than $3,000, you may be able to claim a
tax credit instead. Claim the deduction or credit
in the same way explained under Repayment of
benefits received in an earlier year  under Repayments More Than Gross Benefits next.
Repayments More Than
Gross Benefits
In some situations, your Form SSA -1099 or
RRB-1099 will show that the total benefits you
repaid (box 4) are more than the gross benefits
(box 3) you received. If this occurred, your net
benefits in box 5 will be a negative figure (a
figure in parentheses) and none of your benefits
will be taxable. Don’t use a worksheet in this
case. If you receive more than one form, a negative figure in box 5 of one form is used to offset
a positive figure in box 5 of another form for that
same year.
If you have any questions about this negative figure, contact your local SSA office or your
local RRB field office.
Joint return. If you and your spouse file a joint
return, and your Form SSA -1099 or RRB -1099
has a negative figure in box 5, but your spouse’s
doesn’t, subtract the amount in box 5 of your
form from the amount in box 5 of your spouse’s
form. Y ou do this to get your net benefits when
figuring if your combined benefits are taxable.
Example. Ryan and Jordan file a joint return for 2025. Ryan received Form SSA -1099
showing $3,000 in box 5. Jordan also received
Form SSA-1099 and the amount in box 5 was
($500). Ryan and Jordan will use $2,500
($3,000 minus $500) as the amount of their net
benefits when figuring if any of their combined
benefits are taxable.
Repayment of benefits received in an earlier year. If the total amount shown in box 5 of
all of your Forms SSA -1099 and RRB-1099 is a
negative figure, you may be able to deduct part
of this negative figure that represents benefits
you included in gross income in an earlier year if
the figure is more than $3,000. If the figure is
$3,000 or less, it is a miscellaneous itemized
deduction and can no longer be deducted.
Deduction exceeds $3,000.  If this deduction is more than $3,000, you should figure your
tax two ways.
1. Figure your tax for 2025 with the itemized
deduction included on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 16.
2. Figure your tax for 2025 in the following
steps.
a. Figure the tax without the itemized deduction included on Schedule A
(Form 1040), line 16.
b. For each year after 1983 for which
part of the negative figure represents
a repayment of benefits, refigure your
taxable benefits as if your total benefits for the year were reduced by that
part of the negative figure. Then refigure the tax for that year.
c. Subtract the total of the refigured tax
amounts in (b) from the total of your
actual tax amounts.
d. Subtract the result in (c) from the result in (a).
Compare the tax figured in methods 1 and 2.
Y our tax for 2025 is the smaller of the two
amounts. If method 1 results in less tax, take
the itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 16. If method 2 results in less tax,
claim a credit for the amount from step 2c
above on Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 13z. Enter “I.R.C. 1341” on the entry line. If both methods produce the same tax, deduct the repayment on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 16.
8.
Other Income
What’s New
No tax on overtime.  If you received overtime
compensation, you may be able to claim a deduction for qualified overtime compensation.
See Overtime, later.
No tax on tips.  If you received tips, you may
be able to claim a deduction for qualified tips on
your tax return. See Tips, later.
Reminders
Certain relief payments made to individuals
affected by the East Palestine train derailment are not taxable.  If you received relief
payments from a government agency, Norfolk
Southern Railway, or its subsidiary, insurer,
agent, or a related person due to being affected
by the February 3, 2023, East Palestine, Ohio,
train derailment, these payments may be nontaxable. See Pub. 547 for more information.
Qualified wildfire relief payments are not
taxable.  If you received a qualified wildfire relief payment, those payments may be nontaxable. See Pub. 547 for more information.
Temporary allowance of 100% business
meal deduction has expired.  Section 210 of
the T axpayer Certainty and Disaster T ax Relief
Act of 2020 provided for the temporary allowance of a 100% business meal deduction for
food or beverages provided by a restaurant and
paid or incurred after December 31, 2020, and
before January 1, 2023.
Unemployment compensation.  If you received unemployment compensation but did not
receive Form 1099-G, Certain Government Payments, through the mail, you may need to access your information through your state’s website to get your electronic Form 1099-G.
Introduction
Y ou must include on your return all items of income you receive in the form of money, property, and services unless the tax law states that
you don’t include them. Some items, however,
are only partly excluded from income. This
chapter discusses many kinds of income and
explains whether they’re taxable or nontaxable.
• Income that’s taxable must be reported on
your tax return and is subject to tax.
• Income that’s nontaxable may have to be
shown on your tax return but isn’t taxable.
This chapter begins with discussions of the
following income items.
• Bartering.
• Canceled debts.
Page 68 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
66 Chapter 8 Other Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 69]
• Sales parties at which you’re the host or
hostess.
• Life insurance proceeds.
• Partnership income.
• S corporation income.
• Recoveries (including state income tax refunds).
• Rents from personal property.
• Repayments.
• Royalties.
• Unemployment benefits.
• Welfare and other public assistance benefits.
These discussions are followed by brief discussions of other income items.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
502 Medical and Dental Expenses
504 Divorced or Separated Individuals
523 Selling Y our Home
525 T axable and Nontaxable Income
544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
547 Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts
550 Investment Income and Expenses
4681 Canceled Debts, Foreclosures,
Repossessions, and Abandonments
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
Bartering
Bartering is an exchange of property or services. Y ou must include in your income, at the
time received, the fair market value of property
or services you receive in bartering. If you exchange services with another person and you
both have agreed ahead of time on the value of
the services, that value will be accepted as fair
market value unless the value can be shown to
be otherwise.
Generally, you report this income on Schedule C (Form 1040), Profit or Loss From Business. However, if the barter involves an exchange of something other than services, such
as in Example 3 below, you may have to use another form or schedule instead.
Example 1.  Y ou’re a self-employed attorney who performs legal services for a client, a
small corporation. The corporation gives you
shares of its stock as payment for your services.
Y ou must include the fair market value of the
shares in your income on Schedule C (Form
1040) in the year you receive them.
Example 2.  Y ou’re self-employed and a
member of a barter club. The club uses “credit
units” as a means of exchange. It adds credit
units to your account for goods or services you
  502
  504
  523
  525
  544
  547
  550
  4681
provide to members, which you can use to purchase goods or services offered by other members of the barter club. The club subtracts credit
units from your account when you receive
goods or services from other members. Y ou
must include in your income the value of the
credit units that are added to your account,
even though you may not actually receive goods
or services from other members until a later tax
year.
Example 3.  Y ou own a small apartment
building. In return for 6 months rent -free use of
an apartment, an artist gives you a work of art
she created. Y ou must report as rental income
on Schedule E (Form 1040), Supplemental Income and Loss, the fair market value of the artwork, and the artist must report as income on
Schedule C (Form 1040) the fair rental value of
the apartment.
Form 1099 -B from barter exchange.  If you
exchanged property or services through a barter exchange, Form 1099 -B, Proceeds From
Broker and Barter Exchange T ransactions, or a
similar statement from the barter exchange
should generally be sent to you by February 15,
2026 (if it's not a weekend or holiday). It should
show the value of cash, property, services,
credits, or scrip you received from exchanges
during 2025. The IRS will also receive a copy of
Form 1099-B.
Canceled Debts
In most cases, if a debt you owe is canceled or
forgiven, other than as a gift or bequest, you
must include the canceled amount in your income. Y ou have no income from the canceled
debt if it’s intended as a gift to you. A debt includes any indebtedness for which you’re liable
or which attaches to property you hold.
If the debt is a nonbusiness debt, report the
canceled amount on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8c. If it’s a business debt, report the amount
on Schedule C (Form 1040), (or on Schedule F
(Form 1040), Profit or Loss From Farming, if the
debt is farm debt and you’re a farmer).
Form 1099-C. If a federal government agency,
financial institution, or credit union cancels or
forgives a debt you owe of $600 or more, you
will receive a Form 1099 -C, Cancellation of
Debt. The amount of the canceled debt is
shown in box 2.
Interest included in canceled debt.  If any
interest is forgiven and included in the amount
of canceled debt in box 2, the amount of interest will also be shown in box 3. Whether or not
you must include the interest portion of the canceled debt in your income depends on whether
the interest would be deductible when you paid
it. See Deductible debt under Exceptions, later.
If the interest wouldn’t be deductible (such
as interest on a personal loan), include in your
income the amount from box 2 of Form 1099 -C.
If the interest would be deductible (such as on a
business loan), include in your income the net
amount of the canceled debt (the amount
shown in box 2 less the interest amount shown
in box 3).
Discounted mortgage loan.  If your financial
institution offers a discount for the early payment of your mortgage loan, the amount of the
discount is canceled debt. Y ou must include the
canceled amount in your income.
Mortgage relief upon sale or other disposition. If you’re personally liable for a mortgage
(recourse debt), and you’re relieved of the mortgage when you dispose of the property, you
may realize gain or loss up to the fair market
value of the property. Also, to the extent the
mortgage discharge exceeds the fair market
value of the property, it’s income from discharge
of indebtedness unless it qualifies for exclusion
under Excluded debt, later. Report any income
from discharge of indebtedness on nonbusiness debt that doesn’t qualify for exclusion as
other income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8c.
If you aren’t personally liable for a mortgage
(nonrecourse debt), and you’re relieved of the
mortgage when you dispose of the property
(such as through foreclosure), that relief is included in the amount you realize. Y ou may have a
taxable gain if the amount you realize exceeds
your adjusted basis in the property. Report any
gain on nonbusiness property as a capital gain.
See Pub. 4681 for more information.
Stockholder debt. If you’re a stockholder in a
corporation and the corporation cancels or forgives your debt to it, the canceled debt is a constructive distribution that’s generally dividend income to you. For more information, see Pub.
542, Corporations.
If you’re a stockholder in a corporation and
you cancel a debt owed to you by the corporation, you generally don’t realize income. This is
because the canceled debt is considered as a
contribution to the capital of the corporation
equal to the amount of debt principal that you
canceled.
Repayment of canceled debt. If you included
a canceled amount in your income and later pay
the debt, you may be able to file a claim for refund for the year the amount was included in income. Y ou can file a claim on Form 1040 -X,
Amended U.S. Individual Income T ax Return, if
the statute of limitations for filing a claim is still
open. The statute of limitations generally
doesn’t end until 3 years after the due date of
your original return.
Exceptions
There are several exceptions to the inclusion of
canceled debt in income. These are explained
next.
Student loans. Generally, if you are responsible for making loan payments, and the loan is
canceled or repaid by someone else, you must
include the amount that was canceled or paid
on your behalf in your gross income for tax purposes. However, in certain circumstances, you
may be able to exclude amounts from gross income as a result of the cancellation or repayment of certain student loans. These exclusions
are for:
• Student loan cancellation due to meeting
certain work requirements;
• Cancellation of certain loans after December 31, 2020, and before January 1, 2026
(see Special rule for student loan
Page 69 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 8 Other Income 67

[PAGE 70]
discharges for 2021 through 2025, later);
or
• Certain student loan repayment assistance
programs.
Exclusion for student loan cancellation due
to meeting certain work requirements.  If
your student loan is canceled in part or in whole
in 2025 due to meeting certain work requirements, you may not have to include the canceled debt in your income. T o qualify for this
work-related exclusion, your loan must have
been made by a qualified lender to assist you in
attending an eligible educational organization
described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii). In addition,
the cancellation must be pursuant to a provision
in the student loan that all or part of the debt will
be canceled if you work:
• For a certain period of time,
• In certain professions, and
• For any of a broad class of employers.
The cancellation of your loan won’t
qualify for tax -free treatment if it was
made by an educational organization or
tax-exempt section 501(c)(3) organization and
was canceled because of the services you performed for either organization. See Exception,
later.
Educational organization described in
section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii).  This is an educational organization that maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly
enrolled body of students in attendance at the
place where it carries on its educational activities.
Qualified lenders.  These include the following.
1. The United States, or an instrumentality or
agency thereof.
2. A state or territory of the United States; or
the District of Columbia; or any political
subdivision thereof.
3. A public benefit corporation that is tax exempt under section 501(c)(3); and that
has assumed control of a state, county, or
municipal hospital; and whose employees
are considered public employees under
state law.
4. An educational organization described in
section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii), if the loan is
made:
a. As part of an agreement with an entity
described in (1), (2), or (3) under
which the funds to make the loan were
provided to the educational organization; or
b. Under a program of the educational
organization that is designed to encourage its students to serve in occupations with unmet needs or in areas
with unmet needs where services provided by the students (or former students) are for or under the direction of
a governmental unit or a tax-exempt
section 501(c)(3) organization.
Special rule for student loan discharges for
2021 through 2025.  The American Rescue
CAUTION
!
Plan Act of 2021 modified the treatment of student loan forgiveness for discharges in 2021
through 2025. Generally, if you are responsible
for making loan payments, and the loan is canceled or repaid by someone else, you must include the amount that was canceled or paid on
your behalf in your gross income for tax purposes. However, in certain circumstances, you
may be able to exclude this amount from gross
income if the loan was one of the following.
• A loan for postsecondary educational expenses.
• A private education loan.
• A loan from an educational organization
described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii).
• A loan from an organization exempt from
tax under section 501(a) to refinance a student loan.
See Pub. 4681 and Pub. 970 for more information.
Loan for postsecondary educational expenses.  This is any loan provided expressly for
postsecondary education, regardless of
whether provided through the educational organization or directly to the borrower, if such
loan was made, insured, or guaranteed by one
of the following.
• The United States, or an instrumentality or
agency thereof.
• A state or territory of the United States; or
the District of Columbia; or any political
subdivision thereof.
• An eligible educational organization.
Eligible educational organization.  An eligible educational organization is generally any
accredited public, nonprofit, or proprietary (privately owned profit -making) college, university,
vocational school, or other postsecondary educational organization. Also, the organization
must be eligible to participate in a student aid
program administered by the U.S. Department
of Education.
An eligible educational organization also includes certain educational organizations located outside the United States that are eligible to
participate in a student aid program administered by the U.S. Department of Education.
The educational organization should
be able to tell you if it is an eligible educational organization.
Private education loan.  A private education
loan is a loan provided by a private educational
lender that:
• Is not made, insured, or guaranteed under
Title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965; and
• Is issued expressly for postsecondary educational expenses to a borrower, regardless of whether the loan is provided
through the educational organization that
the student attends or directly to the borrower from the private educational lender.
A private education loan does not include
an extension of credit under an open-end
consumer credit plan, a reverse mortgage
transaction, a residential mortgage transTIP
action, or any other loan that is secured by
real property or a dwelling.
Private educational lender.  A private educational lender is one of the following.
• A financial institution that solicits, makes,
or extends private education loans.
• A federal credit union that solicits, makes,
or extends private education loans.
• Any other person engaged in the business
of soliciting, making, or extending private
education loans.
The cancellation of your loan won’t
qualify for tax-free treatment if it is canceled because of services you performed for the private educational lender that
made the loan or other organization that provided the funds.
Loan from an educational organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii).  This is
any loan made by the organization if the loan is
made:
• As part of an agreement with an entity described earlier under which the funds to
make the loan were provided to the educational organization; or
• Under a program of the educational organization that is designed to encourage its
students to serve in occupations with unmet needs or in areas with unmet needs
where the services provided by the students (or former students) are for or under
the direction of a governmental unit or
tax-exempt section 501(c)(3) organization.
Educational organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii).  This is an educational
organization that maintains a regular faculty and
curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled
body of students in attendance at the place
where it carries on its educational activities.
The cancellation of your loan won’t
qualify for tax -free treatment if it was
made by an educational organization, a
tax-exempt section 501(c)(3) organization, or a
private education lender (as defined in section
140(a)(7) of the T ruth in Lending Act) and was
canceled because of the services you performed for either such organization or private
education lender. See Exception, later.
Section 501(c)(3) organization.  This is
any corporation, community chest, fund, or
foundation organized and operated exclusively
for one or more of the following purposes.
• Charitable.
• Religious.
• Educational.
• Scientific.
• Literary.
• T esting for public safety.
• Fostering national or international amateur
sports competition (but only if none of its
activities involve providing athletic facilities
or equipment).
• The prevention of cruelty to children or animals.
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
Page 70 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
68 Chapter 8 Other Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 71]
Exception.  In most cases, the cancellation
of a student loan made by an educational organization because of services you performed
for that organization or another organization that
provided the funds for the loan must be included in gross income on your tax return.
Refinanced loan.  If you refinanced a student loan with another loan from an eligible educational organization or a tax -exempt organization, that loan may also be considered as
made by a qualified lender. The refinanced loan
is considered made by a qualified lender if it’s
made under a program of the refinancing organization that is designed to encourage students
to serve in occupations with unmet needs or in
areas with unmet needs where the services required of the students are for or under the direction of a governmental unit or a tax -exempt section 501(c)(3) organization.
Student loan repayment assistance.  Student loan repayments made to you are tax free
if you received them for any of the following.
• The National Health Service Corps
(NHSC) Loan Repayment Program.
• A state education loan repayment program
eligible for funds under the Public Health
Service Act.
• Any other state loan repayment or loan forgiveness program that is intended to provide for the increased availability of health
services in underserved or health professional shortage areas (as determined by
such state).
Y ou can’t deduct the interest you paid
on a student loan to the extent payments were made through your participation in any of the above programs.
Deductible debt.  Y ou don’t have income from
the cancellation of a debt if your payment of the
debt would be deductible. This exception applies only if you use the cash method of accounting. For more information, see chapter 5 of
Pub. 334, T ax Guide for Small Business.
Price reduced after purchase.  In most cases, if the seller reduces the amount of debt you
owe for property you purchased, you don’t have
income from the reduction. The reduction of the
debt is treated as a purchase price adjustment
and reduces your basis in the property.
Excluded debt. Don’t include a canceled debt
in your gross income in the following situations.
• The debt is canceled in a bankruptcy case
under title 11 of the U.S. Code. See Pub.
908, Bankruptcy T ax Guide.
• The debt is canceled when you’re insolvent. However, you can’t exclude any
amount of canceled debt that’s more than
the amount by which you’re insolvent. See
Pub. 908.
• The debt is qualified farm debt and is canceled by a qualified person. See chapter 3
of Pub. 225, Farmer's T ax Guide.
• The debt is qualified real property business
debt. See chapter 5 of Pub. 334.
• The cancellation is intended as a gift.
• The debt is qualified principal residence indebtedness (QPRI).
CAUTION
!
Forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans.  The forgiveness of a PPP
loan creates tax -exempt income, so although
you don't need to report the income from the
forgiveness of your PPP loan on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, you do need to report certain information related to your PPP loan.
Revenue Procedure 2021 -48, 2021 -49
I.R.B. 835, permits taxpayers to treat tax -exempt income resulting from the forgiveness of a
PPP loan as received or accrued (1) as, and to
the extent that, eligible expenses are paid or incurred; (2) when you apply for forgiveness of
the PPP loan; or (3) when forgiveness of the
PPP loan is granted. If you have tax -exempt income resulting from the forgiveness of a PPP
loan, attach a statement to your return reporting
each tax year for which you are applying Revenue Procedure 2021 -48, and which section of
Revenue Procedure 2021-48 you are applying–
either section 3.01(1), (2), or (3). Any statement
should include the following information for
each PPP loan.
1. Y our name, address, and ITIN or SSN.
2. A statement that you are applying or applied section 3.01(1), (2), or (3) of Revenue Procedure 2021-48, and for what tax
year.
3. The amount of tax-exempt income from
forgiveness of the PPP loan that you are
treating as received or accrued and for
what tax year.
4. Whether forgiveness of the PPP loan has
been granted as of the date you file your
return.
Write “RP 2021 -48” at the top of your attached statement.
Host
If you host a party or event at which sales are
made, any gift or gratuity you receive for giving
the event is a payment for helping a direct seller
make sales. Y ou must report this item as income at its fair market value.
Y our out-of-pocket party expenses are subject to the 50% limit for meal expenses. For tax
years 2018 and after, no deduction is allowed
for any expenses related to activities generally
considered entertainment, amusement, or recreation. T axpayers may continue to deduct 50%
of the cost of business meals if the taxpayer (or
an employee of the taxpayer) is present and the
food or beverages are not considered lavish or
extravagant. The meals may be provided to a
current or potential business customer, client,
consultant, or similar business contact. Food
and beverages that are provided during entertainment events will not be considered entertainment if purchased separately from the
event.
For more information about the limit for meal
expenses, see Pub. 463, T ravel, Gift, and Car
Expenses.
Life Insurance
Proceeds
Life insurance proceeds paid to you because of
the death of the insured person aren’t taxable
unless the policy was turned over to you for a
price. This is true even if the proceeds were
paid under an accident or health insurance policy or an endowment contract. However, interest income received as a result of life insurance
proceeds may be taxable.
Proceeds not received in installments.  If
death benefits are paid to you in a lump sum or
other than at regular intervals, include in your income only the benefits that are more than the
amount payable to you at the time of the insured
person's death. If the benefit payable at death
isn’t specified, you include in your income the
benefit payments that are more than the present
value of the payments at the time of death.
Proceeds received in installments.  If you
receive life insurance proceeds in installments,
you can exclude part of each installment from
your income.
T o determine the excluded part, divide the
amount held by the insurance company (generally, the total lump sum payable at the death of
the insured person) by the number of installments to be paid. Include anything over this excluded part in your income as interest.
Surviving spouse.  If your spouse died before October 23, 1986, and insurance proceeds
paid to you because of the death of your spouse
are received in installments, you can exclude up
to $1,000 a year of the interest included in the
installments. If you remarry, you can continue to
take the exclusion.
Surrender of policy for cash.  If you surrender a life insurance policy for cash, you must include in income any proceeds that are more
than the cost of the life insurance policy. In most
cases, your cost (or investment in the contract)
is the total of premiums that you paid for the life
insurance policy, less any refunded premiums,
rebates, dividends, or unrepaid loans that
weren’t included in your income.
Y ou should receive a Form 1099-R showing
the total proceeds and the taxable part. Report
these amounts on lines 5a and 5b of Form 1040
or 1040-SR.
More information.  For more information, see
Life Insurance Proceeds in Pub. 525.
Endowment Contract
Proceeds
An endowment contract is a policy under which
you’re paid a specified amount of money on a
certain date unless you die before that date, in
which case the money is paid to your designated beneficiary. Endowment proceeds paid in a
lump sum to you at maturity are taxable only if
the proceeds are more than the cost of the policy. T o determine your cost, subtract any
amount that you previously received under the
contract and excluded from your income from
the total premiums (or other consideration) paid
for the contract. Include in your income the part
Page 71 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 8 Other Income 69

[PAGE 72]
of the lump -sum payment that’s more than your
cost.
Accelerated Death
Benefits
Certain amounts paid as accelerated death
benefits under a life insurance contract or viatical settlement before the insured's death are excluded from income if the insured is terminally
or chronically ill.
Viatical settlement. This is the sale or assignment of any part of the death benefit under a life
insurance contract to a viatical settlement provider. A viatical settlement provider is a person
who regularly engages in the business of buying or taking assignment of life insurance contracts on the lives of insured individuals who are
terminally or chronically ill and who meets the
requirements of section 101(g)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Exclusion for terminal illness.  Accelerated
death benefits are fully excludable if the insured
is a terminally ill individual. This is a person who
has been certified by a physician as having an
illness or physical condition that can reasonably
be expected to result in death within 24 months
from the date of the certification.
Exclusion for chronic illness. If the insured is
a chronically ill individual who’s not terminally ill,
accelerated death benefits paid on the basis of
costs incurred for qualified long -term care services are fully excludable. Accelerated death
benefits paid on a per diem or other periodic basis are excludable up to a limit. For 2025, this
limit is $420. It applies to the total of the accelerated death benefits and any periodic payments received from long -term care insurance
contracts. For information on the limit and the
definitions of “chronically ill individual,” “qualified
long-term care services,” and “long -term care
insurance contracts,” see Long-T erm Care Insurance Contracts under Sickness and Injury
Benefits in Pub. 525.
Exception.  The exclusion doesn’t apply to any
amount paid to a person (other than the insured) who has an insurable interest in the life
of the insured because the insured:
• Is a director, officer, or employee of the
person; or
• Has a financial interest in the person's
business.
Form 8853. T o claim an exclusion for accelerated death benefits made on a per diem or
other periodic basis, you must file Form 8853,
Archer MSAs and Long -T erm Care Insurance
Contracts, with your return. Y ou don’t have to
file Form 8853 to exclude accelerated death
benefits paid on the basis of actual expenses
incurred.
Public Safety Officer Killed
or Injured in the Line of
Duty
A spouse, former spouse, and child of a public
safety officer killed in the line of duty can exclude from gross income survivor benefits
received from a governmental section 401(a)
plan attributable to the officer’s service. See
section 101(h).
A public safety officer who’s permanently
and totally disabled or killed in the line of duty
and a surviving spouse or child can exclude
from income death or disability benefits received from the federal Bureau of Justice Assistance or death benefits paid by a state program.
See section 104(a)(6).
For this purpose, the term “public safety officer” includes law enforcement officers, firefighters, chaplains, and rescue squad and ambulance crew members. For more information, see
Pub. 559, Survivors, Executors, and Administrators.
Partnership Income
A partnership generally isn’t a taxable entity.
The income, gains, losses, deductions, and
credits of a partnership are passed through to
the partners based on each partner's distributive share of these items.
Schedule K -1 (Form 1065).  Although a partnership generally pays no tax, it must file an information return on Form 1065, U.S. Return of
Partnership Income, and send Schedule K -1
(Form 1065) to each partner. In addition, the
partnership will send each partner a copy of the
Partner's Instructions for Schedule K -1 (Form
1065) to help each partner report his or her
share of the partnership's income, deductions,
credits, and tax preference items.
Keep Schedule K -1 (Form 1065) for
your records. Don’t attach it to your
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, unless you’re
specifically required to do so.
For more information on partnerships, see
Pub. 541, Partnerships.
Qualified joint venture (QJV).  If you and
your spouse each materially participate as the
only members of a jointly owned and operated
business, and you file a joint return for the tax
year, you can make a joint election to be treated
as a QJV instead of a partnership. T o make this
election, you must divide all items of income,
gain, loss, deduction, and credit attributable to
the business between you and your spouse in
accordance with your respective interests in the
venture. For further information on how to make
the election and which schedule(s) to file, see
the instructions for your individual tax return.
S Corporation Income
In most cases, an S corporation doesn’t pay tax
on its income. Instead, the income, losses, deductions, and credits of the corporation are
passed through to the shareholders based on
each shareholder's pro rata share.
Schedule K -1 (Form 1120 -S). An S corporation must file a return on Form 1120 -S, U.S. Income T ax Return for an S Corporation, and
send Schedule K -1 (Form 1120 -S) to each
shareholder. In addition, the S corporation will
send each shareholder a copy of the Shareholder's Instructions for Schedule K -1 (Form
1120-S) to help each shareholder report her or
RECORDS
his share of the S corporation's income, losses,
credits, and deductions.
Keep Schedule K -1 (Form 1120 -S) for
your records. Don’t attach it to your
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR unless you’re
specifically required to do so.
For more information on S corporations and
their shareholders, see the Instructions for Form
1120-S.
Recoveries
A recovery is a return of an amount you deducted or took a credit for in an earlier year. The
most common recoveries are refunds, reimbursements, and rebates of deductions itemized on Schedule A (Form 1040). Y ou may also
have recoveries of nonitemized deductions
(such as payments on previously deducted bad
debts) and recoveries of items for which you
previously claimed a tax credit.
Tax benefit rule.  Y ou must include a recovery
in your income in the year you receive it up to
the amount by which the deduction or credit you
took for the recovered amount reduced your tax
in the earlier year. For this purpose, any increase to an amount carried over to the current
year that resulted from the deduction or credit is
considered to have reduced your tax in the earlier year.
Federal income tax refund.  Refunds of federal income taxes aren’t included in your income because they’re never allowed as a deduction from income.
State tax refund. If you received a state or local income tax refund (or credit or offset) in
2025, you must generally include it in income if
you deducted the tax in an earlier year. The
payer should generally send Form 1099 -G to
you by January 31 (if it's not a weekend or holiday). The IRS will also receive a copy of the
Form 1099-G. If you file Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
use the State and Local Income T ax Refund
Worksheet under Instructions for Schedule 1  in
the Instructions for Form 1040 to figure the
amount (if any) to include in your income. See
Pub. 525 for when you must use another worksheet.
If you could choose to deduct for a tax year
either:
• State and local income taxes, or
• State and local general sales taxes, then
the maximum refund that you may have to include in income is limited to the excess of the
tax you chose to deduct for that year over the
tax you didn’t choose to deduct for that year.
For examples, see Pub. 525.
Mortgage interest refund.  If you received a
refund or credit in 2025 of mortgage interest
paid in an earlier year, the amount should be
shown in box 4 of Form 1098, Mortgage Interest
Statement. Don’t subtract the refund amount
from the interest you paid in 2025. Y ou may
have to include it in your income under the rules
explained in the following discussions.
Interest on recovery.  Interest on any of the
amounts you recover must be reported as interest income in the year received. For example,
RECORDS
Page 72 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
70 Chapter 8 Other Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 73]
report any interest you received on state or local
income tax refunds on Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or
1040-NR, line 2b.
Recovery and expense in same year.  If the
refund or other recovery and the expense occur
in the same year, the recovery reduces the deduction or credit and isn’t reported as income.
Recovery for 2 or more years.  If you receive
a refund or other recovery that’s for amounts
you paid in 2 or more separate years, you must
allocate, on a pro rata basis, the recovered
amount between the years in which you paid it.
This allocation is necessary to determine the
amount of recovery from any earlier years and
to determine the amount, if any, of your allowable deduction for this item for the current year.
For information on how to figure the allocation,
see Recoveries in Pub. 525.
Itemized Deduction
Recoveries
If you recover any amount that you deducted in
an earlier year on Schedule A (Form 1040), you
must generally include the full amount of the recovery in your income in the year you receive it.
Where to report.  Enter your state or local income tax refund on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 1, and the total of all other recoveries as
other income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8z.
Standard deduction limit.  Y ou are generally
allowed to claim the standard deduction if you
don’t itemize your deductions. Only your itemized deductions that are more than your standard deduction are subject to the recovery rule
(unless you’re required to itemize your deductions). If your total deductions on the earlier
year return weren’t more than your income for
that year, include in your income this year the
lesser of:
• Y our recoveries, or
• The amount by which your itemized deductions exceeded the standard deduction.
Example.  For 2024, you filed a joint return.
Y our taxable income was $60,000 and you
weren’t entitled to any tax credits. Y our standard
deduction was $29,200, and you had itemized
deductions of $30,700. In 2025, you received
the following recoveries for amounts deducted
on your 2024 return.
Medical expenses ............... $200
State and local income tax refund ....... 400
Refund of mortgage interest .......... 325
T otal recoveries ................ $925
None of the recoveries were more than the deductions taken for 2024. The difference between the state and local income tax you deducted and your local general sales tax was
more than $400.
Y our total recoveries are less than the
amount by which your itemized deductions exceeded the standard deduction ($30,700 −
$29,200 = $1,500), so you must include your total recoveries in your income for 2025. Report
the state and local income tax refund of $400
on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 1, and the
balance of your recoveries, $525, on Schedule
1 (Form 1040), line 8z.
Standard deduction for earlier years.  T o
determine if amounts recovered in the current
year must be included in your income, you must
know the standard deduction for your filing status for the year the deduction was claimed.
Look in the instructions for your tax return from
prior years to locate the standard deduction for
the filing status for that prior year. If you filed
Form 1040-NR, you couldn’t claim the standard
deduction except for certain nonresident aliens
from India; see Pub. 519.
Example.  Y ou filed a joint return on Form
1040 for 2024 with taxable income of $45,000.
Y our itemized deductions were $29,450. The
standard deduction that you could have claimed
was $29,200. In 2025, you recovered $2,100 of
your 2024 itemized deductions. None of the recoveries were more than the actual deductions
for 2024. Include $250 of the recoveries in your
2025 income. This is the smaller of your recoveries ($2,100) or the amount by which your
itemized deductions were more than the standard deduction ($29,450 − $29,200 = $250).
Recovery limited to deduction.  Y ou don’t include in your income any amount of your recovery that’s more than the amount you deducted
in the earlier year. The amount you include in
your income is limited to the smaller of:
• The amount deducted on Schedule A
(Form 1040), or
• The amount recovered.
Example.  During 2024, you paid $1,700 for
medical expenses. Of this amount, you deducted $200 on your 2024 Schedule A (Form
1040). In 2025, you received a $500 reimbursement from your medical insurance for your 2024
expenses. The only amount of the $500 reimbursement that must be included in your income
for 2025 is $200 —the amount actually deducted.
Other recoveries.  See Recoveries in Pub.
525 if:
• Y ou have recoveries of items other than
itemized deductions, or
• Y ou received a recovery for an item for
which you claimed a tax credit (other than
investment credit or foreign tax credit) in a
prior year.
Rents From Personal
Property
If you rent out personal property, such as equipment or vehicles, how you report your income
and expenses is in most cases determined by:
• Whether or not the rental activity is a business, and
• Whether or not the rental activity is conducted for profit.
In most cases, if your primary purpose is income or profit and you’re involved in the rental
activity with continuity and regularity, your rental
activity is a business.
Reporting business income and expenses.
If you’re in the business of renting personal
property, report your income and expenses on
Schedule C (Form 1040). The form instructions
have information on how to complete them.
Reporting nonbusiness income.  If you
aren’t in the business of renting personal property, report your rental income on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 8l.
Reporting nonbusiness expenses.  If you
rent personal property for profit, include your
rental expenses in the total amount you enter on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 24b, and see the
instructions there.
If you don’t rent personal property for profit,
your deductions are limited and you can’t report
a loss to offset other income. See Activities not
engaged in for profit under Other Income, later.
Repayments
If you had to repay an amount that you included
in your income in an earlier year, you may be
able to deduct the amount repaid from your income for the year in which you repaid it. Or, if
the amount you repaid is more than $3,000, you
may be able to take a credit against your tax for
the year in which you repaid it. Generally, you
can claim a deduction or credit only if the repayment qualifies as an expense or loss incurred in
your trade or business or in a for -profit transaction.
Type of deduction.  The type of deduction
you’re allowed in the year of repayment depends on the type of income you included in the
earlier year. Y ou generally deduct the repayment on the same form or schedule on which
you previously reported it as income. For example, if you reported it as self -employment income, deduct it as a business expense on
Schedule C (Form 1040) or Schedule F (Form
1040). If you reported it as a capital gain, deduct it as a capital loss as explained in the Instructions for Schedule D (Form 1040). If you
reported it as wages, unemployment compensation, or other nonbusiness income, you may
be able to deduct it as an other itemized deduction if the amount repaid is over $3,000.
Beginning in 2018, you can no longer
claim any miscellaneous itemized deductions, so if the amount repaid was
$3,000 or less, you are not able to deduct it
from your income in the year you repaid it.
Repaid social security benefits. If you repaid
social security benefits or equivalent railroad retirement benefits, see Repayment of benefits in
chapter 7.
Repayment over $3,000.  If the amount you
repaid was more than $3,000, you can deduct
the repayment as an other itemized deduction
on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 16, if you included the income under a claim of right. This
means that at the time you included the income,
it appeared that you had an unrestricted right to
it. However, you can choose to take a credit for
the year of repayment. Figure your tax under
both methods and compare the results. Use the
method (deduction or credit) that results in less
tax.
CAUTION
!
Page 73 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 8 Other Income 71

[PAGE 74]
When determining whether the amount
you repaid was more or less than
$3,000, consider the total amount being repaid on the return. Each instance of repayment isn’t considered separately.
Method 1.  Figure your tax for 2025 claiming
a deduction for the repaid amount. If you deduct
it as an other itemized deduction, enter it on
Schedule A (Form 1040), line 16.
Method 2.  Figure your tax for 2025 claiming
a credit for the repaid amount. Follow these
steps.
1. Figure your tax for 2025 without deducting
the repaid amount.
2. Refigure your tax from the earlier year
without including in income the amount
you repaid in 2025.
3. Subtract the tax in (2) from the tax shown
on your return for the earlier year. This is
the credit.
4. Subtract the answer in (3) from the tax for
2025 figured without the deduction (step
1).
If method 1 results in less tax, deduct the
amount repaid. If method 2 results in less tax,
claim the credit figured in (3) above on Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 13b, by adding the
amount of the credit to any other credits on this
line, and see the instructions there.
An example of this computation can be
found in Pub. 525.
Repaid wages subject to social security
and Medicare taxes.  If you had to repay an
amount that you included in your wages or compensation in an earlier year on which social security, Medicare, or tier 1 RRTA tax was paid,
ask your employer to refund the excess amount
to you. If the employer refuses to refund the
taxes, ask for a statement indicating the amount
of the overcollection to support your claim. File
a claim for refund using Form 843, Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement.
Repaid wages subject to Additional Medicare Tax.  Employers can’t make an adjustment or file a claim for refund for Additional
Medicare T ax withholding when there is a repayment of wages received by an employee in a
prior year because the employee determines liability for Additional Medicare T ax on the employee's income tax return for the prior year. If
you had to repay an amount that you included in
your wages or compensation in an earlier year,
and on which Additional Medicare T ax was
paid, you may be able to recover the Additional
Medicare T ax paid on the amount. T o recover
Additional Medicare T ax on the repaid wages or
compensation, you must file Form 1040 -X for
the prior year in which the wages or compensation was originally received. See the Instructions for Form 1040-X.
Royalties
Royalties from copyrights, patents, and oil, gas,
and mineral properties are taxable as ordinary
income.
In most cases, you report royalties in Part I
of Schedule E (Form 1040). However, if you
CAUTION
!
hold an operating oil, gas, or mineral interest or
are in business as a self-employed writer, inventor, artist, etc., report your income and expenses on Schedule C (Form 1040).
Copyrights and patents. Royalties from copyrights on literary, musical, or artistic works, and
similar property, or from patents on inventions,
are amounts paid to you for the right to use your
work over a specified period of time. Royalties
are generally based on the number of units
sold, such as the number of books, tickets to a
performance, or machines sold.
Name, image, likeness (NIL).  NIL is a term
that describes the means through which student-athletes are allowed to receive financial
compensation. NIL refers to the use of a student-athlete's name, image, or likeness for commercial purposes through marketing and promotional endeavors. This can include such
things as autograph signings, product endorsements, licensing and merchandising agreements, participating in advertising campaigns,
social media posts, teaching camps or lessons,
and more.
Oil, gas, and minerals.  Royalty income from
oil, gas, and mineral properties is the amount
you receive when natural resources are extracted from your property. The royalties are based
on units, such as barrels, tons, etc., and are
paid to you by a person or company that leases
the property from you.
Depletion. If you’re the owner of an economic interest in mineral deposits or oil and gas
wells, you can recover your investment through
the depletion allowance.
Coal and iron ore.  Under certain circumstances, you can treat amounts you receive
from the disposal of coal and iron ore as payments from the sale of a capital asset, rather
than as royalty income. For information about
gain or loss from the sale of coal and iron ore,
see chapter 2 of Pub. 544.
Sale of property interest.  If you sell your
complete interest in oil, gas, or mineral rights,
the amount you receive is considered payment
for the sale of property used in a trade or business under section 1231, not royalty income.
Under certain circumstances, the sale is subject
to capital gain or loss treatment as explained in
the Instructions for Schedule D (Form 1040).
For more information on selling section 1231
property, see chapter 3 of Pub. 544.
If you retain a royalty, an overriding royalty,
or a net profit interest in a mineral property for
the life of the property, you have made a lease
or a sublease, and any cash you receive for the
assignment of other interests in the property is
ordinary income subject to a depletion allowance.
Part of future production sold.  If you own
mineral property but sell part of the future production, in most cases, you treat the money you
receive from the buyer at the time of the sale as
a loan from the buyer. Don’t include it in your income or take depletion based on it.
When production begins, you include all the
proceeds in your income, deduct all the production expenses, and deduct depletion from that
amount to arrive at your taxable income from
the property.
Unemployment
Benefits
The tax treatment of unemployment benefits
you receive depends on the type of program
paying the benefits.
Unemployment compensation.  Y ou must include in income all unemployment compensation you receive. Y ou should receive a Form
1099-G showing in box 1 the total unemployment compensation paid to you. In most cases,
you enter unemployment compensation on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 7.
If you received unemployment compensation but did not receive Form
1099-G through the mail, you may
need to access your information through your
state’s website to get your electronic Form
1099-G.
Types of unemployment compensation.
Unemployment compensation generally includes any amount received under an unemployment compensation law of the United
States or of a state. It includes the following
benefits.
• Benefits paid by a state or the District of
Columbia from the Federal Unemployment
T rust Fund.
• State unemployment insurance benefits.
• Railroad unemployment compensation
benefits.
• Disability payments from a government
program paid as a substitute for unemployment compensation. (Amounts received as
workers' compensation for injuries or illness aren’t unemployment compensation.
See chapter 5 for more information.)
• T rade readjustment allowances under the
T rade Act of 1974.
• Unemployment assistance under the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act.
• Unemployment assistance under the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 Program.
Governmental program.  If you contribute
to a governmental unemployment compensation program and your contributions aren’t deductible, amounts you receive under the program aren’t included as unemployment
compensation until you recover your contributions. If you deducted all of your contributions to
the program, the entire amount you receive under the program is included in your income.
Repayment of unemployment compensation. If you repaid in 2025 unemployment compensation you received in 2025, subtract the
amount you repaid from the total amount you received and enter the difference on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 7. On the dotted line next to
your entry, enter “Repaid” and the amount you
repaid. If you repaid unemployment compensation in 2025 that you included in income in an
earlier year, you can deduct the amount repaid
CAUTION
!
Page 74 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
72 Chapter 8 Other Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 75]
on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 16, if you itemize deductions and the amount is more than
$3,000. See Repayments, earlier.
Tax withholding. Y ou can choose to have
federal income tax withheld from your unemployment compensation. T o make this choice,
complete Form W -4V , Voluntary Withholding
Request, and give it to the paying office. T ax will
be withheld at 10% of your payment.
If you don’t choose to have tax withheld
from your unemployment compensation, you may be liable for estimated
tax. If you don’t pay enough tax, either through
withholding or estimated tax, or a combination
of both, you may have to pay a penalty. For
more information on estimated tax, see chapter 4.
Supplemental unemployment benefits.
Benefits received from an employer -financed
fund (to which the employees didn’t contribute)
aren’t unemployment compensation. They are
taxable as wages. For more information, see
Supplemental Unemployment Compensation
Benefits in section 5 of Pub. 15 -A, Employer's
Supplemental T ax Guide. Report these payments on line 1a of Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Repayment of benefits.  Y ou may have to
repay some of your supplemental unemployment benefits to qualify for trade readjustment
allowances under the T rade Act of 1974. If you
repay supplemental unemployment benefits in
the same year you receive them, reduce the total benefits by the amount you repay. If you repay the benefits in a later year, you must include
the full amount of the benefits received in your
income for the year you received them.
Deduct the repayment in the later year as an
adjustment to gross income on Form 1040 or
1040-SR. Include the repayment on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 24e, and see the instructions
there. If the amount you repay in a later year is
more than $3,000, you may be able to take a
credit against your tax for the later year instead
of deducting the amount repaid. For more information on this, see Repayments, earlier.
Private unemployment fund.  Unemployment
benefit payments from a private (nonunion) fund
to which you voluntarily contribute are taxable
only if the amounts you receive are more than
your total payments into the fund. Report the
taxable amount on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8z.
Payments by a union. Benefits paid to you as
an unemployed member of a union from regular
union dues are included in your income on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z. However, if
you contribute to a special union fund and your
payments to the fund aren’t deductible, the unemployment benefits you receive from the fund
are includible in your income only to the extent
they’re more than your contributions.
Guaranteed annual wage.  Payments you receive from your employer during periods of unemployment, under a union agreement that
guarantees you full pay during the year, are taxable as wages. Include them on line 1a of Form
1040 or 1040-SR.
State employees.  Payments similar to a
state's unemployment compensation may be
CAUTION
!
made by the state to its employees who aren’t
covered by the state's unemployment compensation law. Although the payments are fully taxable, don’t report them as unemployment compensation. Report these payments on Schedule
1 (Form 1040), line 8z.
Welfare and Other
Public Assistance
Benefits
Don’t include in your income governmental benefit payments from a public welfare fund based
upon need, such as payments to blind individuals under a state public assistance law. Payments from a state fund for the victims of crime
shouldn’t be included in the victims' incomes if
they’re in the nature of welfare payments. Don’t
deduct medical expenses that are reimbursed
by such a fund. Y ou must include in your income
any welfare payments that are compensation for
services or that are obtained fraudulently.
Reemployment Trade Adjustment Assistance (RTAA) payments.  RTAA payments received from a state must be included in your income. The state must send you Form 1099-G to
advise you of the amount you should include in
income. The amount should be reported on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z.
Persons with disabilities.  If you have a disability, you must include in income compensation
you receive for services you perform unless the
compensation is otherwise excluded. However,
you don’t include in income the value of goods,
services, and cash that you receive, not in return for your services, but for your training and
rehabilitation because you have a disability. Excludable amounts include payments for transportation and attendant care, such as interpreter services for the deaf, reader services for
the blind, and services to help individuals with
an intellectual disability do their work.
Disaster relief grants.  Don’t include post -disaster grants received under the Robert T . Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act in your income if the grant payments are
made to help you meet necessary expenses or
serious needs for medical, dental, housing, personal property, transportation, childcare, or funeral expenses. Don’t deduct casualty losses or
medical expenses that are specifically reimbursed by these disaster relief grants. If you
have deducted a casualty loss for the loss of
your personal residence and you later receive a
disaster relief grant for the loss of the same residence, you may have to include part or all of the
grant in your taxable income. See Recoveries,
earlier. Unemployment assistance payments
under the Act are taxable unemployment compensation. See Unemployment compensation
under Unemployment Benefits, earlier.
Disaster relief payments.  Y ou can exclude
from income any amount you receive that’s a
qualified disaster relief payment. A qualified disaster relief payment is an amount paid to you:
1. T o reimburse or pay reasonable and necessary personal, family, living, or funeral
expenses that result from a qualified disaster;
2. T o reimburse or pay reasonable and necessary expenses incurred for the repair or
rehabilitation of your home or repair or replacement of its contents to the extent it’s
due to a qualified disaster;
3. By a person engaged in the furnishing or
sale of transportation as a common carrier
because of the death or personal physical
injuries incurred as a result of a qualified
disaster; or
4. By a federal, state, or local government;
agency; or instrumentality in connection
with a qualified disaster in order to promote the general welfare.
Y ou can exclude this amount only to the extent
any expense it pays for isn’t paid for by insurance or otherwise. The exclusion doesn’t apply
if you were a participant or conspirator in a terrorist action or a representative of one.
A qualified disaster is:
• A disaster that results from a terrorist or
military action;
• A federally declared disaster; or
• A disaster that results from an accident involving a common carrier, or from any
other event, that is determined to be catastrophic by the Secretary of the T reasury or
his or her delegate.
For amounts paid under item (4) above, a
disaster is qualified if it’s determined by an applicable federal, state, or local authority to warrant assistance from the federal, state, or local
government, agency, or instrumentality.
Disaster mitigation payments.  Y ou can exclude from income any amount you receive
that’s a qualified disaster mitigation payment.
Qualified disaster mitigation payments are most
commonly paid to you in the period immediately
following damage to property as a result of a
natural disaster. However, disaster mitigation
payments are used to mitigate (reduce the severity of) potential damage from future natural
disasters. They’re paid to you through state and
local governments based on the provisions of
the Robert T . Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act or the National Flood Insurance Act.
Y ou can’t increase the basis or adjusted basis of your property for improvements made with
nontaxable disaster mitigation payments.
Mortgage assistance payments under section 235 of the National Housing Act.  Payments made under section 235 of the National
Housing Act for mortgage assistance aren’t included in the homeowner's income. Interest
paid for the homeowner under the mortgage assistance program can’t be deducted.
Medicare. Medicare benefits received under title XVIII of the Social Security Act aren’t includible in the gross income of the individuals for
whom they’re paid. This includes basic (Part A
(Hospital Insurance Benefits for the Aged)) and
supplementary (Part B (Supplementary Medical
Insurance Benefits for the Aged)).
Social security benefits (including
lump-sum payments attributable to prior
years), Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
benefits, and lump-sum death benefits. The
Social Security Administration (SSA) provides
Page 75 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 8 Other Income 73

[PAGE 76]
benefits such as old -age benefits, benefits to
disabled workers, and benefits to spouses and
dependents. These benefits may be subject to
federal income tax depending on your filing status and other income. See chapter 7 in this publication and Pub. 915, Social Security and
Equivalent Railroad Retirement Benefits, for
more information. An individual originally denied
benefits, but later approved, may receive a
lump-sum payment for the period when benefits
were denied (which may be prior years). See
Pub. 915 for information on how to make a
lump-sum election, which may reduce your tax
liability. There are also other types of benefits
paid by the SSA. However, SSI benefits and
lump-sum death benefits (one -time payment to
spouse and children of deceased) aren’t subject to federal income tax. For more information
on these benefits, go to SSA.gov.
Nutrition Program for the Elderly. Food benefits you receive under the Nutrition Program for
the Elderly aren’t taxable. If you prepare and
serve free meals for the program, include in
your income as wages the cash pay you receive, even if you’re also eligible for food benefits.
Payments to reduce cost of winter energy.
Payments made by a state to qualified people to
reduce their cost of winter energy use aren’t
taxable.
Other Income
The following brief discussions are arranged in
alphabetical order. Other income items briefly
discussed below can be found in other publications that provide more topical information.
Activities not engaged in for profit.  Y ou
must include on your return income from an activity from which you don’t expect to make a
profit. An example of this type of activity is a
hobby or a farm you operate mostly for recreation and pleasure. Enter this income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8j. Deductions for expenses related to the activity are limited. They
can’t total more than the income you report and
can be taken only if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Alaska Permanent Fund dividend.  If you received a payment from Alaska's mineral income
fund (Alaska Permanent Fund dividend), report
it as income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8g. The 2024 Alaska Permanent Fund dividend payment included an energy relief payment as part of the total dividend payment. Do
not reduce the amount on line 8g by the energy
relief payment portion of the 2024 Alaska Permanent Fund dividend payment; the entire
$1,702 Alaska Permanent Fund dividend payment for 2024 is taxable for federal income tax
purposes. The state of Alaska sends each recipient a document that shows the amount of
the payment with the check. The amount is also
reported to the IRS.
Alimony. Include in your income on Schedule
1 (Form 1040), line 2a, any taxable alimony payments you receive. Amounts you receive for
child support aren’t income to you. Alimony and
child support payments are discussed in Pub.
504.
Don’t include alimony payments you receive under a divorce or separation
agreement (1) executed after 2018 or
(2) executed before 2019 but later modified if
the modification expressly states the repeal of
the deduction for alimony payments applies to
the modification.
Bribes. If you receive a bribe, include it in your
income.
Campaign contributions. These contributions
aren’t income to a candidate unless they’re diverted to her or his personal use. T o be nontaxable, the contributions must be spent for campaign purposes or kept in a fund for use in
future campaigns. However, interest earned on
bank deposits, dividends received on contributed securities, and net gains realized on sales
of contributed securities are taxable and must
be reported on Form 1120 -POL, U.S. Income
T ax Return for Certain Political Organizations.
Excess campaign funds transferred to an office
account must be included in the officeholder's
income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z, in
the year transferred.
Carpools. Don’t include in your income
amounts you receive from the passengers for
driving a car in a carpool to and from work.
These amounts are considered reimbursement
for your expenses. However, this rule doesn’t
apply if you have developed carpool arrangements into a profit -making business of transporting workers for hire.
Cash rebates. A cash rebate you receive from
a dealer or manufacturer of an item you buy
isn’t income, but you must reduce your basis by
the amount of the rebate.
Example. Y ou buy a new car for $24,000
cash and receive a $2,000 rebate check from
the manufacturer. The $2,000 isn’t income to
you. Y our basis in the car is $22,000. This is the
basis on which you figure gain or loss if you sell
the car and depreciation if you use it for business.
Casualty insurance and other reimbursements. Y ou generally shouldn’t report these reimbursements on your return unless you’re figuring gain or loss from the casualty or theft. See
Pub. 547 for more information.
Child support payments.  Y ou shouldn’t report these payments on your return. See Pub.
504 for more information.
Court awards and damages.  T o determine if
settlement amounts you receive by compromise
or judgment must be included in your income,
you must consider the item that the settlement
replaces. The character of the income as ordinary income or capital gain depends on the nature of the underlying claim. Include the following as ordinary income.
1. Interest on any award.
2. Compensation for lost wages or lost profits
in most cases.
3. Punitive damages, in most cases. It
doesn’t matter if they relate to a physical
injury or physical sickness.
4. Amounts received in settlement of pension
rights (if you didn’t contribute to the plan).
CAUTION
!
5. Damages for:
a. Patent or copyright infringement,
b. Breach of contract, or
c. Interference with business operations.
6. Back pay and damages for emotional distress received to satisfy a claim under title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7. Attorney fees and costs (including contingent fees) where the underlying recovery
is included in gross income.
8. Attorney fees and costs relating to whistleblower awards where the underlying recovery is included in gross income.
Don’t include in your income compensatory
damages for personal physical injury or physical
sickness (whether received in a lump sum or installments).
Emotional distress.  Emotional distress itself isn’t a physical injury or physical sickness,
but damages you receive for emotional distress
due to a physical injury or sickness are treated
as received for the physical injury or sickness.
Don’t include them in your income.
If the emotional distress is due to a personal
injury that isn’t due to a physical injury or sickness (for example, employment discrimination
or injury to reputation), you must include the
damages in your income, except for any damages that aren’t more than amounts paid for
medical care due to that emotional distress.
Emotional distress includes physical symptoms
that result from emotional distress, such as
headaches, insomnia, and stomach disorders.
Credit card insurance.  In most cases, if you
receive benefits under a credit card disability or
unemployment insurance plan, the benefits are
taxable to you. These plans make the minimum
monthly payment on your credit card account if
you can’t make the payment due to injury, illness, disability, or unemployment. Report on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z, the amount of
benefits you received during the year that’s
more than the amount of the premiums you paid
during the year.
Down payment assistance. If you purchase a
home and receive assistance from a nonprofit
corporation to make the down payment, that assistance isn’t included in your income. If the corporation qualifies as a tax -exempt charitable organization, the assistance is treated as a gift
and is included in your basis of the house. If the
corporation doesn’t qualify, the assistance is
treated as a rebate or reduction of the purchase
price and isn’t included in your basis.
Employment agency fees.  If you get a job
through an employment agency, and the fee is
paid by your employer, the fee isn’t includible in
your income if you aren’t liable for it. However, if
you pay it and your employer reimburses you for
it, it’s includible in your income.
Energy conservation subsidies. Y ou can exclude from gross income any subsidy provided,
either directly or indirectly, by public utilities for
the purchase or installation of an energy conservation measure for a dwelling unit.
Energy conservation measure.  This includes installations or modifications that are
Page 76 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
74 Chapter 8 Other Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 77]
primarily designed to reduce consumption of
electricity or natural gas, or improve the management of energy demand.
Dwelling unit.  This includes a house,
apartment, condominium, mobile home, boat,
or similar property. If a building or structure contains both dwelling and other units, any subsidy
must be properly allocated.
Estate and trust income.  An estate or trust,
unlike a partnership, may have to pay federal income tax. If you’re a beneficiary of an estate or
trust, you may be taxed on your share of its income distributed or required to be distributed to
you. However, there is never a double tax. Estates and trusts file their returns on Form 1041,
U.S. Income T ax Return for Estates and T rusts,
and your share of the income is reported to you
on Schedule K-1 (Form 1041).
Current income required to be distributed. If you’re the beneficiary of an estate or
trust that must distribute all of its current income, you must report your share of the distributable net income, whether or not you actually
received it.
Current income not required to be distributed. If you’re the beneficiary of an estate
or trust and the fiduciary has the choice of
whether to distribute all or part of the current income, you must report:
• All income that’s required to be distributed
to you, whether or not it’s actually distributed, plus
• All other amounts actually paid or credited
to you,
up to the amount of your share of distributable
net income.
How to report.  T reat each item of income
the same way that the estate or trust would treat
it. For example, if a trust's dividend income is
distributed to you, you report the distribution as
dividend income on your return. The same rule
applies to distributions of tax -exempt interest
and capital gains.
The fiduciary of the estate or trust must tell
you the type of items making up your share of
the estate or trust income and any credits you’re
allowed on your individual income tax return.
Losses. Losses of estates and trusts generally aren’t deductible by the beneficiaries.
Grantor trust.  Income earned by a grantor
trust is taxable to the grantor, not the beneficiary, if the grantor keeps certain control over
the trust. (The grantor is the one who transferred property to the trust.) This rule applies if the
property (or income from the property) put into
the trust will or may revert (be returned) to the
grantor or the grantor's spouse.
Generally, a trust is a grantor trust if the
grantor has a reversionary interest valued (at
the date of transfer) at more than 5% of the
value of the transferred property.
Expenses paid by another.  If your personal
expenses are paid for by another person, such
as a corporation, the payment may be taxable
to you depending upon your relationship with
that person and the nature of the payment. But
if the payment makes up for a loss caused by
that person, and only restores you to the position you were in before the loss, the payment
isn’t includible in your income.
Fees for services.  Include all fees for your
services in your income. Examples of these
fees are amounts you receive for services you
perform as:
• A corporate director;
• An executor, administrator, or personal
representative of an estate;
• A manager of a trade or business you operated before declaring chapter 11 bankruptcy;
• A notary public; or
• An election precinct official.
Nonemployee compensation. If you aren’t
an employee and the fees for your services from
a single payer in the course of the payer's trade
or business total $600 or more for the year, the
payer should send you a Form 1099 -NEC. Y ou
may need to report your fees as self -employment income. See Self-Employed Persons  in
chapter 1 for a discussion of when you’re considered self-employed.
Corporate director. Corporate director fees
are self-employment income. Report these payments on Schedule C (Form 1040).
Personal representatives.  All personal
representatives must include in their gross income fees paid to them from an estate. If you
aren’t in the trade or business of being an executor (for instance, you’re the executor of a
friend's or relative's estate), report these fees on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z. If you’re in the
trade or business of being an executor, report
these fees as self -employment income on
Schedule C (Form 1040). The fee isn’t includible in income if it’s waived.
Manager of trade or business for bankruptcy estate.  Include in your income all payments received from your bankruptcy estate for
managing or operating a trade or business that
you operated before you filed for bankruptcy.
Report this income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8z.
Notary public.  Report payments for these
services on Schedule C (Form 1040). These
payments aren’t subject to self-employment tax.
See the separate Instructions for Schedule SE
(Form 1040) for details.
Election precinct official.  Y ou should receive a Form W -2 showing payments for services performed as an election official or election
worker. Report these payments on line 1a of
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Foster care providers.  Generally, payment
you receive from a state, a political subdivision,
or a qualified foster care placement agency for
caring for a qualified foster individual in your
home is excluded from your income. However,
you must include in your income payment to the
extent it’s received for the care of more than five
qualified foster individuals age 19 years or
older.
A qualified foster individual is a person who:
1. Is living in a foster family home; and
2. Was placed there by:
a. An agency of a state or one of its political subdivisions, or
b. A qualified foster care placement
agency.
Difficulty-of-care payments.  These are
payments that are designated by the payer as
compensation for providing the additional care
that’s required for physically, mentally, or emotionally handicapped qualified foster individuals.
A state must determine that this compensation
is needed, and the care for which the payments
are made must be provided in the foster care
provider's home in which the qualified foster individual was placed.
Certain Medicaid waiver payments are treated as difficulty -of-care payments when received by an individual care provider for caring
for an eligible individual living in the provider's
home. See Notice 2014 -7, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2014-04_IRB#NOT -2014-7; and related questions and answers, available at
IRS.gov/Individuals/Certain-Medicaid-WaiverPayments-May-Be-Excludable-From-Income,
for more information.
Y ou must include in your income difficulty-of-care payments to the extent they’re received for more than:
• 10 qualified foster individuals under age
19, or
• 5 qualified foster individuals age 19 or
older.
Maintaining space in home.  If you’re paid
to maintain space in your home for emergency
foster care, you must include the payment in
your income.
Reporting taxable payments.  If you receive payments that you must include in your income and you’re in business as a foster care
provider, report the payments on Schedule C
(Form 1040). See Pub. 587, Business Use of
Y our Home, to help you determine the amount
you can deduct for the use of your home.
Found property. If you find and keep property
that doesn’t belong to you that has been lost or
abandoned (treasure trove), it’s taxable to you
at its fair market value in the first year it’s your
undisputed possession.
Free tour.  If you received a free tour from a
travel agency for organizing a group of tourists,
you must include its value in your income. Report the fair market value of the tour on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z, if you aren’t in the
trade or business of organizing tours. Y ou can’t
deduct your expenses in serving as the voluntary leader of the group at the group's request. If
you organize tours as a trade or business, report the tour's value on Schedule C (Form
1040).
Gambling winnings.  Y ou must include your
gambling winnings in income on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 8b. Winnings from fantasy
sports leagues are gambling winnings. If you
itemize your deductions on Schedule A (Form
1040), you can deduct gambling losses you had
during the year, but only up to the amount of
your winnings. If you’re in the trade or business
of gambling, use Schedule C (Form 1040).
Lotteries and raffles.  Winnings from lotteries and raffles are gambling winnings. In
Page 77 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 8 Other Income 75

[PAGE 78]
addition to cash winnings, you must include in
your income the fair market value of bonds,
cars, houses, and other noncash prizes.
If you win a state lottery prize payable
in installments, see Pub. 525 for more
information.
Form W-2G. Y ou may have received a Form
W-2G, Certain Gambling Winnings, showing the
amount of your gambling winnings and any tax
taken out of them. Include the amount from
box 1 on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8b. Include the amount shown in box 4 on Form 1040
or 1040 -SR, line 25c, as federal income tax
withheld.
Reporting winnings and recordkeeping.
For more information on reporting gambling
winnings and recordkeeping, see Gambling
Losses up to the Amount of Gambling Winnings
in chapter 12.
Gifts and inheritances.  In most cases, property you receive as a gift, bequest, or inheritance isn’t included in your income. However, if
property you receive this way later produces income such as interest, dividends, or rents, that
income is taxable to you. If property is given to a
trust and the income from it is paid, credited, or
distributed to you, that income is also taxable to
you. If the gift, bequest, or inheritance is the income from the property, that income is taxable
to you.
Inherited pension or individual retirement arrangement (IRA).  If you inherited a
pension or an IRA, you may have to include part
of the inherited amount in your income. See
Survivors and Beneficiaries  in Pub. 575 if you
inherited a pension. See What if Y ou Inherit an
IRA? in Pubs. 590 -A and 590 -B if you inherited
an IRA.
Hobby losses. Losses from a hobby aren’t deductible from other income. A hobby is an activity from which you don’t expect to make a profit.
See Activities not engaged in for profit, earlier.
If you collect stamps, coins, or other
items as a hobby for recreation and
pleasure, and you sell any of the items,
your gain is taxable as a capital gain. (See Pub.
550.) However, if you sell items from your collection at a loss, you can’t deduct the loss.
Illegal activities. Income from illegal activities,
such as money from dealing illegal drugs, must
be included in your income on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 8z, or on Schedule C (Form
1040) if from your self-employment activity.
Indian fishing rights.  If you’re a member of a
qualified Indian tribe that has fishing rights secured by treaty, Executive order, or an Act of
Congress as of March 17, 1988, don’t include in
your income amounts you receive from activities
related to those fishing rights. The income isn’t
subject to income tax, self -employment tax, or
employment taxes.
Interest on frozen deposits.  In general, you
exclude from your income the amount of interest earned on a frozen deposit. See Interest income on frozen deposits in chapter 6.
Interest on qualified savings bonds.  Y ou
may be able to exclude from income the interest
TIP
CAUTION
!
from qualified U.S. savings bonds you redeem if
you pay qualified higher education expenses in
the same year. For more information on this exclusion, see Education Savings Bond Program
under U.S. Savings Bonds in chapter 6.
Job interview expenses. If a prospective employer asks you to appear for an interview and
either pays you an allowance or reimburses you
for your transportation and other travel expenses, the amount you receive is generally not
taxable. Y ou include in income only the amount
you receive that’s more than your actual expenses.
Jury duty. Jury duty pay you receive must be
included in your income on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 8h. If you gave any of your jury duty
pay to your employer because your employer
continued to pay you while you served jury duty,
include the amount you gave your employer as
an income adjustment on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 24a, and see the instructions there.
Kickbacks. Y ou must include kickbacks, side
commissions, push money, or similar payments
you receive in your income on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 8z; or on Schedule C (Form
1040) if from your self-employment activity.
Example. Y ou sell cars and help arrange
car insurance for buyers. Insurance brokers pay
back part of their commissions to you for referring customers to them. Y ou must include the
kickbacks in your income.
Medical savings accounts (Archer MSAs
and Medicare Advantage MSAs). In most cases, you don’t include in income amounts you
withdraw from your Archer MSA or Medicare
Advantage MSA if you use the money to pay for
qualified medical expenses. Generally, qualified
medical expenses are those you can deduct on
Schedule A (Form 1040). For more information
about qualified medical expenses, see Pub.
502. For more information about Archer MSAs
or Medicare Advantage MSAs, see Pub. 969,
Health Savings Accounts and Other T ax -Favored Health Plans.
Overtime. If you earned qualified overtime, you
may be eligible to deduct up to $12,500
($25,000 if married filing jointly) of your qualified
overtime compensation. Y our deduction will be
limited if your modified adjusted gross income is
more than $150,000 ($300,000 if married filing
jointly). T o be eligible, you and/or your spouse
who received the overtime must have a valid
SSN. If you are married, you must file a joint return.
Prizes and awards.  If you win a prize in a
lucky number drawing, television or radio quiz
program, beauty contest, or other event, you
must include it in your income. For example, if
you win a $50 prize in a photography contest,
you must report this income on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 8i. If you refuse to accept a
prize, don’t include its value in your income.
Prizes and awards in goods or services
must be included in your income at their fair
market value.
Employee awards or bonuses.  Cash
awards or bonuses given to you by your employer for good work or suggestions must generally be included in your income as wages.
However, certain noncash employee achievement awards can be excluded from income.
See Bonuses and awards in chapter 5.
Pulitzer, Nobel, and similar prizes.  If you
were awarded a prize in recognition of accomplishments in religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, educational, literary, or civic fields, you
must generally include the value of the prize in
your income. However, you don’t include this
prize in your income if you meet all of the following requirements.
• Y ou were selected without any action on
your part to enter the contest or proceeding.
• Y ou aren’t required to perform substantial
future services as a condition to receiving
the prize or award.
• The prize or award is transferred by the
payer directly to a governmental unit or
tax-exempt charitable organization as designated by you.
See Pub. 525 for more information about the
conditions that apply to the transfer.
Qualified Opportunity Fund (QOF).  Effective
December 22, 2017, Code section 1400Z -2
provides a temporary deferral on inclusion in
gross income for capital gains invested in
QOFs, and permanent exclusion of capital
gains from the sale or exchange of an investment in the QOF if the investment is held for at
least 10 years. See the Instructions for Form
8949 on how to report your election to defer eligible gains invested in a QOF . See the instructions for Form 8997, Initial and Annual Statement of Qualified Opportunity Fund (QOF)
Investments, for reporting information. For additional information, see Opportunity Zones Frequently Asked Questions at IRS.gov/
Newsroom/Opportunity-Zones-FrequentlyAsked-Questions.
Qualified tuition programs (QTPs).  A QTP
(also known as a 529 program) is a program set
up to allow you to either prepay or contribute to
an account established for paying a student's
qualified higher education expenses at an eligible educational institution. A program can be
established and maintained by a state, an
agency or instrumentality of a state, or an eligible educational institution.
The part of a distribution representing the
amount paid or contributed to a QTP isn’t included in income. This is a return of the investment
in the program.
In most cases, the beneficiary doesn’t include in income any earnings distributed from a
QTP if the total distribution is less than or equal
to adjusted qualified higher education expenses. See Pub. 970 for more information.
Railroad retirement annuities.  The following
types of payments are treated as pension or annuity income and are taxable under the rules
explained in Pub. 575, Pension and Annuity Income.
• Tier 1 railroad retirement benefits that are
more than the social security equivalent
benefit.
• Tier 2 benefits.
• Vested dual benefits.
Page 78 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
76 Chapter 8 Other Income Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 79]
Rewards. If you receive a reward for providing
information, include it in your income.
Sale of home.  Y ou may be able to exclude
from income all or part of any gain from the sale
or exchange of your main home. See Pub. 523.
Sale of personal items.  If you sold an item
you owned for personal use, such as a car, refrigerator, furniture, stereo, jewelry, or silverware, your gain is taxable as a capital gain. Report it as explained in the Instructions for
Schedule D (Form 1040). Y ou can’t deduct a
loss.
However, if you sold an item you held for investment, such as gold or silver bullion, coins,
or gems, any gain is taxable as a capital gain
and any loss is deductible as a capital loss.
Example. Y ou sold a painting on an online
auction website for $100. Y ou bought the painting for $20 at a garage sale years ago. Report
your gain as a capital gain as explained in the
Instructions for Schedule D (Form 1040).
Scholarships and fellowships.  A candidate
for a degree can exclude amounts received as a
qualified scholarship or fellowship. A qualified
scholarship or fellowship is any amount you receive that’s for:
• T uition and fees to enroll at or attend an
educational institution; or
• Fees, books, supplies, and equipment required for courses at the educational institution.
Amounts used for room and board don’t qualify
for the exclusion. See Pub. 970 for more information on qualified scholarships and fellowship
grants.
Payment for services.  In most cases, you
must include in income the part of any scholarship or fellowship that represents payment for
past, present, or future teaching, research, or
other services. This applies even if all candidates for a degree must perform the services to
receive the degree.
For information about the rules that apply to
a tax-free qualified tuition reduction provided to
employees and their families by an educational
institution, see Pub. 970.
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) payments. Allowances paid by the VA aren’t included in your income. These allowances aren’t
considered scholarship or fellowship grants.
Prizes. Scholarship prizes won in a contest
aren’t scholarships or fellowships if you don’t
have to use the prizes for educational purposes.
Y ou must include these amounts in your income
on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8i, whether or
not you use the amounts for educational purposes.
Sharing/gig economy. A sharing economy is
one in which assets are shared between individuals for a fee, usually through the Internet. For
example, you rent out your car when you don’t
need it, or you share your wi-fi account for a fee.
A gig economy is one in which a short -term
contract or freelance work is the norm, as opposed to a permanent job. For example, you
drive for a ride -sharing service, or work as a fitness trainer, babysitter, or tutor.
Generally, if you have income from sharing
economy transactions, or you did gig work, you
must include all income received whether you
received a Form 1099 -K, Payment Card and
Third-Party Network T ransactions, or not. See
the Instructions for Schedule C (Form 1040)
and the Instructions for Schedule SE (Form
1040).
State tax payments.  Do not include payments on your tax return made by states under
legislatively provided social benefit programs
for the promotion of the general welfare. T o
qualify for the general welfare exclusion, state
payments must be paid from a governmental
fund, be for the promotion of general welfare
(that is, based on the need of the individual or
family receiving such payments), and not represent compensation for services.
Stolen property.  If you steal property, you
must report its fair market value in your income
in the year you steal it unless you return it to its
rightful owner in the same year.
Tips. Y ou may be eligible to take a deduction
for qualified tips paid to you in 2025. Y ou can’t
deduct more than $25,000 of those tips. Y our
deduction will be limited if your modified adjusted gross income is more than $150,000
($300,000 if married filing jointly). T o be eligible,
you and/or your spouse who received the tips
must have a valid SSN. If you are married, you
must file a joint return.
Transporting school children.  Don’t include
in your income a school board mileage allowance for taking children to and from school if
you aren’t in the business of taking children to
school. Y ou can’t deduct expenses for providing
this transportation.
Union benefits and dues.  Amounts deducted
from your pay for union dues, assessments,
contributions, or other payments to a union
can’t be excluded from your income.
Strike and lockout benefits.  Benefits paid
to you by a union as strike or lockout benefits,
including both cash and the fair market value of
other property, are usually included in your income as compensation. Y ou can exclude these
benefits from your income only when the facts
clearly show that the union intended them as
gifts to you.
Utility rebates. If you’re a customer of an electric utility company and you participate in the
utility's energy conservation program, you may
receive on your monthly electric bill either:
• A reduction in the purchase price of electricity furnished to you (rate reduction), or
• A nonrefundable credit against the purchase price of the electricity.
The amount of the rate reduction or nonrefundable credit isn’t included in your income.
9.
Individual
Retirement
Arrangements
(IRAs)
What’s New
Modified adjusted gross income (AGI) limit
for traditional IRA contributions. For 2025, if
you are covered by a retirement plan at work,
your deduction for contributions to a traditional
IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified
AGI is:
• More than $126,000 but less than
$146,000 for a married couple filing a joint
return or a qualifying surviving spouse,
• More than $79,000 but less than $89,000
for a single individual or head of household, or
• Less than $10,000 for a married individual
filing a separate return.
If you either live with your spouse or file a joint
return, and your spouse is covered by a retirement plan at work but you aren’t, your deduction
is phased out if your modified AGI is more than
$236,000 but less than $246,000. If your modified AGI is $246,000 or more, you can’t take a
deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA.
See How Much Can Y ou Deduct, later.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions. For 2025, your Roth IRA contribution
limit is reduced (phased out) in the following situations.
• Y our filing status is married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving spouse and your modified AGI is at least $236,000. Y ou can’t
make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $246,000 or more.
• Y our filing status is single, head of household, or married filing separately and you
didn’t live with your spouse at any time in
2025 and your modified AGI is at least
$150,000. Y ou can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $165,000
or more.
• Y our filing status is married filing separately, you lived with your spouse at any
time during the year, and your modified
AGI is more than zero. Y ou can’t make a
Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI
is $10,000 or more.
See Can Y ou Contribute to a Roth IRA, later.
Page 79 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 77

[PAGE 80]
2026 modified AGI limits.  Y ou can find information about the 2026 contribution and AGI limits in Pub. 590-A.
Reminders
Contributions to both traditional and Roth
IRAs. For information on your combined contribution limit if you contribute to both traditional
and Roth IRAs, see Roth IRAs and traditional
IRAs, later.
Statement of required minimum distribution. If a minimum distribution from your IRA is
required, the trustee, custodian, or issuer that
held the IRA at the end of the preceding year
must either report the amount of the required
minimum distribution to you, or offer to figure it
for you. The report or offer must include the
date by which the amount must be distributed.
The report is due January 31 of the year in
which the minimum distribution is required. It
can be provided with the year -end fair market
value statement that you normally get each
year. No report is required for IRAs of owners
who have died.
IRA interest.  Although interest earned from
your IRA is generally not taxed in the year
earned, it isn’t tax -exempt interest. T ax on your
traditional IRA is generally deferred until you
take a distribution. Don't report this interest on
your tax return as tax-exempt interest.
Net Investment Income Tax (NIIT).  For purposes of the NIIT , net investment income
doesn't include distributions from 401(a),
403(a), 403(b), or 457(b) plans, or IRAs. However, these distributions are taken into account
when determining the modified AGI threshold.
Distributions from retirement plans other than
401(a), 403(a), 403(b), or 457(b) plans, or IRAs,
are included in net investment income. See
Form 8960, Net Investment Income T ax —Individuals, Estates, and T rusts, and its instructions
for more information.
Form 8606. T o designate contributions as nondeductible, you must file Form 8606.
The term “50 or older” is used several
times in this chapter. It refers to an IRA
owner who is age 50 or older by the
end of the tax year.
Introduction
An IRA is a personal savings plan that gives you
tax advantages for setting aside money for your
retirement.
This chapter discusses the following topics.
• The rules for a traditional IRA (any IRA that
isn't a Roth or SIMPLE IRA).
• The Roth IRA, which features nondeductible contributions and tax-free distributions.
Simplified Employee Pensions (SEPs) and
Savings Incentive Match Plans for Employees
(SIMPLE) plans aren't discussed in this chapter.
For more information on these plans and employees' SEP IRAs and SIMPLE IRAs that are
part of these plans, see Pub. 560.
For information about contributions, deductions, withdrawals, transfers, rollovers, and
TIP
other transactions, see Pub. 590 -A and Pub.
590-B.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
560 Retirement Plans for Small Business
575 Pension and Annuity Income
590-A Contributions to Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)
590-B Distributions from Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)
Form (and Instructions)
5329 Additional T axes on Qualified Plans
(Including IRAs) and Other
T ax-Favored Accounts
8606 Nondeductible IRAs
8915-F Qualified Disaster Retirement
Plan Distributions and Repayments
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
Types of IRAs
An IRA can be either a traditional IRA or a Roth
IRA. In general, individuals may make their own
contributions to their traditional IRAs or Roth
IRAs. In addition, certain employers have arrangements under which the employer may
contribute to IRAs of their employees.
Under a SEP arrangement, an employer
contributes to traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as traditional SEP IRAs) or Roth IRAs
(sometimes referred to as Roth SEP IRAs) of its
employees. Individuals may separately make
their own contributions to the same IRAs to
which their employer contributes under a SEP
arrangement. Under a SIMPLE IRA plan, an
employer contributes salary reduction contributions (at the election of the employee), matching
contributions and/or nonelective contributions
to traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as traditional SIMPLE IRAs) or Roth IRAs (sometimes
referred to as Roth SIMPLE IRAs) of its employees. However, a SIMPLE IRA (whether a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth SIMPLE IRA) is
subject to certain restrictions that do not generally apply to other traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs.
For example, an individual cannot make their
own contributions to a SIMPLE IRA. In addition,
there are various restrictions related to distributions and contributions during the initial 2 years
of participation in the SIMPLE IRA plan.
References in this publication to traditional
IRAs generally include traditional SEP IRAs but
do not include traditional SIMPLE IRAs, unless
otherwise stated. Likewise, references to Roth
IRAs generally include Roth SEP IRAs but do
not include Roth SIMPLE IRAs, unless otherwise stated.
Traditional IRAs
In this chapter, the original IRA (sometimes
called an ordinary or regular IRA) is referred to
  560
  575
  590-A
  590-B
  5329
  8606
  8915-F
as a “traditional IRA.” A traditional IRA is any
IRA that isn't a Roth IRA or a SIMPLE IRA. T raditional IRAs include traditional IRAs that receive employer contributions from SEP arrangements. T wo advantages of a traditional IRA are
that:
• Y ou may be able to deduct some or all of
your contributions to it, depending on your
circumstances; and
• Generally, amounts in your IRA, including
earnings and gains, aren't taxed until they
are distributed.
Who Can Open a
Traditional IRA?
Y ou can open and make contributions to a traditional IRA if you (or, if you file a joint return, your
spouse) received taxable compensation during
the year.
For tax years beginning after 2019,
there is no age limit on making contributions to your traditional IRA. For
more information, see Pub. 590-A.
What is compensation?  Generally, compensation is what you earn from working. Compensation includes wages, salaries, tips, professional fees, bonuses, and other amounts you
receive for providing personal services. The IRS
treats as compensation any amount properly
shown in box 1 (Wages, tips, other compensation) of Form W -2, Wage and T ax Statement,
provided that this amount is reduced by any
amount properly shown in box 11 (Nonqualified
plans).
Scholarship or fellowship payments are generally compensation for this purpose only if reported in box 1 of your Form W -2. However, for
tax years beginning after 2019, certain non -tuition fellowship and stipend payments not reported to you on Form W -2 are treated as taxable
compensation for IRA purposes. These
amounts include taxable non -tuition fellowship
and stipend payments made to aid you in the
pursuit of graduate or postdoctoral study and included in your gross income under the rules discussed in chapter 1 of Pub. 970, T ax Benefits
for Education.
Compensation also includes commissions
and taxable alimony and separate maintenance
payments.
Self-employment income.  If you are
self-employed (a sole proprietor or a partner),
compensation is the net earnings from your
trade or business (provided your personal services are a material income -producing factor) reduced by the total of:
• The deduction for contributions made on
your behalf to retirement plans, and
• The deductible part of your self-employment tax.
Compensation includes earnings from
self-employment even if they aren't subject to
self-employment tax because of your religious
beliefs.
Nontaxable combat pay.  For IRA purposes, if you were a member of the U.S. Armed
TIP
Page 80 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
78 Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 81]
Forces, your compensation includes any nontaxable combat pay you receive.
What isn't compensation?  Compensation
doesn't include any of the following items.
• Earnings and profits from property, such as
rental income, interest income, and dividend income.
• Pension or annuity income.
• Deferred compensation received (compensation payments postponed from a past
year).
• Income from a partnership for which you
don't provide services that are a material
income-producing factor.
• Conservation Reserve Program (CRP)
payments reported on Schedule SE (Form
1040), line 1b.
• Any amounts (other than combat pay) you
exclude from income, such as foreign
earned income and housing costs.
When and How Can a
Traditional IRA Be
Opened?
Y ou can open a traditional IRA at any time.
However, the time for making contributions for
any year is limited. See When Can Contributions Be Made, later.
Y ou can open different kinds of IRAs with a
variety of organizations. Y ou can open an IRA at
a bank or other financial institution or with a mutual fund or life insurance company. Y ou can
also open an IRA through your stockbroker. Any
IRA must meet Internal Revenue Code requirements.
Kinds of traditional IRAs. Y our traditional IRA
can be an individual retirement account or annuity. It can be part of either a SEP or an employer or employee association trust account.
How Much Can Be
Contributed?
There are limits and other rules that affect the
amount that can be contributed to a traditional
IRA. These limits and other rules are explained
below.
Community property laws.  Except as discussed later under Kay Bailey Hutchison
Spousal IRA limit , each spouse figures their
limit separately, using their own compensation.
This is the rule even in states with community
property laws.
Brokers' commissions.  Brokers' commissions paid in connection with your traditional
IRA are subject to the contribution limit.
Trustees' fees.  T rustees' administrative fees
aren't subject to the contribution limit.
Qualified reservist repayments. If you are (or
were) a member of a reserve component and
you were ordered or called to active duty after
September 11, 2001, you may be able to contribute (repay) to an IRA amounts equal to any
qualified reservist distributions you received.
Y ou can make these repayment contributions
even if they would cause your total contributions
to the IRA to be more than the general limit on
contributions. T o be eligible to make these repayment contributions, you must have received
a qualified reservist distribution from an IRA or
from a section 401(k) or 403(b) plan or similar
arrangement.
For more information, see Qualified reservist
repayments under How Much Can Be Contributed? in chapter 1 of Pub. 590-A.
Contributions on your behalf to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA. (See Roth IRAs ,
later.)
General limit. For 2025, the most that can be
contributed to your traditional IRA is generally
the smaller of the following amounts.
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or older).
• Y our taxable compensation (defined earlier) for the year.
This is the most that can be contributed regardless of whether the contributions are to one or
more traditional IRAs or whether all or part of
the contributions are nondeductible. (See Nondeductible Contributions , later.) Qualified reservist repayments don't affect this limit.
Example 1. Y ou are 34 years old and single
and earned $24,000 in 2025. Y our IRA contributions for 2025 are limited to $7,000.
Example 2.  Y ou are an unmarried college
student working part time and earned $3,500 in
2025. Y our IRA contributions for 2025 are limited to $3,500, the amount of your compensation.
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA limit. For
2025, if you file a joint return and your taxable
compensation is less than that of your spouse,
the most that can be contributed for the year to
your IRA is the smaller of the following amounts.
1. $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or older).
2. The total compensation includible in the
gross income of both you and your spouse
for the year, reduced by the following two
amounts.
a. Y our spouse's IRA contribution for the
year to a traditional IRA.
b. Any contribution for the year to a Roth
IRA on behalf of your spouse.
This means that the total combined contributions that can be made for the year to your IRA
and your spouse's IRA can be as much as
$14,000 ($15,000 if only one of you is 50 or
older, or $16,000 if both of you are 50 or older).
When Can Contributions
Be Made?
As soon as you open your traditional IRA, contributions can be made to it through your
chosen sponsor (trustee or other administrator).
Contributions must be in the form of money
(cash, check, or money order). Property can't
be contributed.
Contributions must be made by due date.
Contributions can be made to your traditional
CAUTION
!
IRA for a year at any time during the year or by
the due date for filing your return for that year,
not including extensions.
Designating year for which contribution is
made. If an amount is contributed to your traditional IRA between January 1 and April 15, you
should tell the sponsor which year (the current
year or the previous year) the contribution is for.
If you don't tell the sponsor which year it is for,
the sponsor can assume, and report to the IRS,
that the contribution is for the current year (the
year the sponsor received it).
Filing before a contribution is made.  Y ou
can file your return claiming a traditional IRA
contribution before the contribution is actually
made. Generally, the contribution must be made
by the due date of your return, not including extensions.
Contributions not required. Y ou don't have to
contribute to your traditional IRA for every tax
year, even if you can.
How Much Can You
Deduct?
Generally, you can deduct the lesser of:
• The contributions to your traditional IRA for
the year, or
• The general limit (or the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA limit, if it applies).
However, if you or your spouse were covered by
an employer retirement plan, you may not be
able to deduct this amount. See Limit if Covered
by Employer Plan, later.
Y ou may be able to claim a credit for
contributions to your traditional IRA.
For more information, see chapter 3 of
Pub. 590-A.
Trustees' fees.  T rustees' administrative fees
that are billed separately and paid in connection
with your traditional IRA aren't deductible as
IRA contributions. Y ou are also not able to deduct these fees as an itemized deduction.
Brokers' commissions.  Brokers' commissions are part of your IRA contribution and, as
such, are deductible subject to the limits.
Full deduction. If neither you nor your spouse
was covered for any part of the year by an employer retirement plan, you can take a deduction
for total contributions to one or more traditional
IRAs of up to the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or older in
2025), or
• 100% of your compensation.
This limit is reduced by any contributions made
to a section 501(c)(18) plan on your behalf.
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA.  In the
case of a married couple with unequal compensation who file a joint return, the deduction for
contributions to the traditional IRA of the spouse
with less compensation is limited to the lesser
of the following amounts.
1. $7,000 ($8,000 if the spouse with the
lower compensation is 50 or older in
2025).
TIP
Page 81 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 79

[PAGE 82]
2. The total compensation includible in the
gross income of both spouses for the year
reduced by the following three amounts.
a. The IRA deduction for the year of the
spouse with the greater compensation.
b. Any designated nondeductible contribution for the year made on behalf of
the spouse with the greater compensation.
c. Any contributions for the year to a
Roth IRA on behalf of the spouse with
the greater compensation.
This limit is reduced by any contributions to a
501(c)(18) plan on behalf of the spouse with the
lesser compensation.
Note: If you were divorced or legally separated (and didn't remarry) before the end of the
year, you can't deduct any contributions to your
spouse's IRA. After a divorce or legal separation, you can deduct only contributions to your
own IRA. Y our deductions are subject to the
rules for single individuals.
Covered by an employer retirement plan.  If
you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan at any time during the
year for which contributions were made, your
deduction may be further limited. This is discussed later under Limit if Covered by Employer
Plan. Limits on the amount you can deduct don't
affect the amount that can be contributed. See
Nondeductible Contributions, later.
Are You Covered by an Employer
Plan?
The Form W -2 you receive from your employer
has a box used to indicate whether you were
covered for the year. The “Retirement plan” box
should be checked if you were covered.
Reservists and volunteer firefighters should
also see Situations in Which Y ou Aren’t Covered, later.
If you aren't certain whether you were covered by your employer's retirement plan, you
should ask your employer.
Federal judges. For purposes of the IRA deduction, federal judges are covered by an employer retirement plan.
For Which Year(s) Are You
Covered?
Special rules apply to determine the tax years
for which you are covered by an employer plan.
These rules differ depending on whether the
plan is a defined contribution plan or a defined
benefit plan.
Tax year. Y our tax year is the annual accounting period you use to keep records and report
income and expenses on your income tax return. For almost all people, the tax year is the
calendar year.
Defined contribution plan. Generally, you are
covered by a defined contribution plan for a tax
year if amounts are contributed or allocated to
your account for the plan year that ends with or
within that tax year.
A defined contribution plan is a plan that
provides for a separate account for each person
covered by the plan. T ypes of defined contribution plans include profit-sharing plans, stock bonus plans, and money purchase pension plans.
For additional information, see Pub. 590-A.
Defined benefit plan. If you are eligible to participate in your employer's defined benefit plan
for the plan year that ends within your tax year,
you are covered by the plan. This rule applies
even if you:
• Declined to participate in the plan,
• Didn't make a required contribution, or
• Didn't perform the minimum service required to accrue a benefit for the year.
A defined benefit plan is any plan that isn't a
defined contribution plan. In a defined benefit
plan, the level of benefits to be provided to each
participant is spelled out in the plan. The plan
administrator figures the amount needed to provide those benefits, and those amounts are
contributed to the plan. Defined benefit plans include pension plans and annuity plans.
No vested interest. If you accrue a benefit for
a plan year, you are covered by that plan even if
you have no vested interest in (legal right to) the
accrual.
Situations in Which You Aren’t
Covered
Unless you are covered under another employer plan, you aren't covered by an employer
plan if you are in one of the situations described
below.
Social security or railroad retirement.  Coverage under social security or railroad retirement isn't coverage under an employer retirement plan.
Benefits from a previous employer's plan. If
you receive retirement benefits from a previous
employer's plan, you aren't covered by that
plan.
Reservists. If the only reason you participate
in a plan is because you are a member of a reserve unit of the U.S. Armed Forces, you may
not be covered by the plan. Y ou aren't covered
by the plan if both of the following conditions are
met.
1. The plan you participate in is established
for its employees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a
state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b)
above.
2. Y ou didn't serve more than 90 days on active duty during the year (not counting duty
for training).
Volunteer firefighters. If the only reason you
participate in a plan is because you are a volunteer firefighter, you may not be covered by the
plan. Y ou aren't covered by the plan if both of
the following conditions are met.
1. The plan you participate in is established
for its employees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a
state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b)
above.
2. Y our accrued retirement benefits at the beginning of the year won't provide more
than $1,800 per year at retirement.
Limit if Covered by Employer Plan
If either you or your spouse was covered by an
employer retirement plan, you may be entitled
to only a partial (reduced) deduction or no deduction at all, depending on your income and
your filing status.
Y our deduction begins to decrease (phase
out) when your income rises above a certain
amount and is eliminated altogether when it
reaches a higher amount. These amounts vary
depending on your filing status.
T o determine if your deduction is subject to
phaseout, you must determine your modified
AGI and your filing status. See Filing status and
Modified AGI, later. Then use T able 9-1 or T able 9-2 to determine if the phaseout applies.
Social security recipients.  Instead of using
T able 9-1 or T able 9-2, use the worksheets in
Appendix B of Pub. 590 -A if, for the year, all of
the following apply.
• Y ou received social security benefits.
• Y ou received taxable compensation.
• Contributions were made to your traditional
IRA.
• Y ou or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan.
Use those worksheets to figure your IRA deduction, your nondeductible contribution, and the
taxable portion, if any, of your social security
benefits.
Deduction phaseout. If you are covered by an
employer retirement plan and you didn't receive
any social security retirement benefits, your IRA
deduction may be reduced or eliminated depending on your filing status and modified AGI
as shown in T able 9-1.
If your spouse is covered.  If you aren't
covered by an employer retirement plan, but
your spouse is, and you didn't receive any social security benefits, your IRA deduction may
be reduced or eliminated entirely depending on
your filing status and modified AGI as shown in
T able 9-2.
Filing status.  Y our filing status depends primarily on your marital status. For this purpose,
you need to know if your filing status is single,
head of household, married filing jointly, qualifying surviving spouse, or married filing separately. If you need more information on filing status, see Filing Status.
Lived apart from spouse.  If you didn't live
with your spouse at any time during the year
and you file a separate return, your filing status,
for this purpose, is single.
Modified AGI. Y ou may be able to use Worksheet 9-1 to figure your modified AGI. However,
if you made contributions to your IRA for 2025
Page 82 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
80 Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 83]
and received a distribution from your IRA in
2025, see Pub. 590-A.
Don't assume that your modified AGI is
the same as your compensation. Y our
modified AGI may include income in
addition to your compensation (discussed earlier), such as interest, dividends, and income
from IRA distributions.
CAUTION
!
When filing Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, refigure
the AGI amount on line 11a without taking into
account any of the following amounts.
• IRA deduction.
• Student loan interest deduction.
• Foreign earned income exclusion.
• Foreign housing exclusion or deduction.
• Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest
shown on Form 8815, Exclusion of Interest
From Series EE and I U.S. Savings Bonds
Issued After 1989.
• Exclusion of employer-provided adoption
benefits shown on Form 8839, Qualified
Adoption Expenses.
This is your modified AGI.
T able 9-1. Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Are Covered by
Retirement Plan at Work
If you are covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI
affects the amount of your deduction.
IF your filing status is... AND your modified AGI is... THEN you can take...
Single

or

Head of household
 $79,000 or less a full deduction.
more than $79,000
but less than $89,000
a partial deduction.
$89,000 or more no deduction.
Married filing jointly

 or

Qualifying surviving
spouse
 $126,000 or less a full deduction.
more than $126,000
but less than $146,000
a partial deduction.
$146,000 or more no deduction.
Married filing
separately2
less than $10,000 a partial deduction.
$10,000 or more no deduction.
1 Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified AGI, later.
2 If you didn't live with your spouse at any time during the year, your filing status is considered Single for this
purpose (therefore, your IRA deduction is determined under the “Single” column).
T able 9-2. Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Aren’t Covered by
Retirement Plan at Work
If you aren't covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI
affects the amount of your deduction.
IF your filing status is... AND your modified AGI is... THEN you can take...
Single,
Head of household, or
Qualifying surviving spouse
any amount a full deduction.
Married filing jointly or
separately with a spouse who
isn't covered by a plan at work
any amount a full deduction.
Married filing jointly with a
spouse who is covered by a plan
at work
$236,000 or less a full deduction.
more than $236,000
but less than $246,000
a partial deduction.
$246,000 or more no deduction.
Married filing separately with a
spouse who is covered by a plan
at work2
less than $10,000 a partial deduction.
$10,000 or more no deduction.
1 Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified AGI, on previous page.
2 Y ou are entitled to the full deduction if you didn't live with your spouse at any time during the year.
Page 83 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 81

[PAGE 84]
Both contributions for 2025 and distributions in 2025. If all three of the following apply,
any IRA distributions you received in 2025 may
be partly tax free and partly taxable.
• Y ou received distributions in 2025 from one
or more traditional IRAs.
• Y ou made contributions to a traditional IRA
for 2025.
• Some of those contributions may be nondeductible contributions.
If this is your situation, you must figure the taxable part of the traditional IRA distribution before
you can figure your modified AGI. T o do this,
you can use Worksheet 1-1 in Pub. 590-B.
If at least one of the above doesn't apply, figure your modified AGI using Worksheet 9-1.
How to figure your reduced IRA deduction.
Y ou can figure your reduced IRA deduction for
Form 1040 or 1040-SR by using the worksheets
in chapter 1 of Pub. 590 -A. Also, the Instructions for Form 1040 include similar worksheets
that you may be able to use instead.
Reporting Deductible
Contributions
When filing Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, enter your
IRA deduction on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 20.
Nondeductible
Contributions
Although your deduction for IRA contributions
may be reduced or eliminated, contributions
can be made to your IRA up to the general limit
or, if it applies, the Kay Bailey Hutchison
Spousal IRA limit . The difference between your
total permitted contributions and your IRA deduction, if any, is your nondeductible contribution.
Example. Y ou are 30 years old and single.
In 2025, you were covered by a retirement plan
at work. Y our salary was $67,000. Y our modified
AGI was $90,000. Y ou made a $7,000 IRA contribution for 2025. Because you were covered
by a retirement plan and your modified AGI was
over $89,000, you can't deduct the $7,000 IRA
contribution. Y ou must designate this contribution as a nondeductible contribution by reporting it on Form 8606, as explained next.
Form 8606. T o designate contributions as nondeductible, you must file Form 8606.
Y ou don't have to designate a contribution
as nondeductible until you file your tax return.
When you file, you can even designate otherwise deductible contributions as nondeductible.
Y ou must file Form 8606 to report nondeductible contributions even if you don't have to file a
tax return for the year.
A Form 8606 isn't used for the year that
you make a rollover from a qualified retirement plan to a traditional IRA and
the rollover includes nontaxable amounts. In
those situations, a Form 8606 is completed for
the year you take a distribution from that IRA.
See Form 8606  under Distributions Fully or
Partly T axable, later.
Failure to report nondeductible contributions. If you don't report nondeductible contributions, all of the contributions to your traditional IRA will be treated as deductible
contributions when withdrawn. All distributions
from your IRA will be taxed unless you can
show, with satisfactory evidence, that nondeductible contributions were made.
Penalty for overstatement. If you overstate
the amount of nondeductible contributions on
your Form 8606 for any tax year, you must pay a
penalty of $100 for each overstatement, unless
it was due to reasonable cause.
Penalty for failure to file Form 8606.  Y ou
will have to pay a $50 penalty if you don't file a
required Form 8606, unless you can prove that
the failure was due to reasonable cause.
Tax on earnings on nondeductible contributions. As long as contributions are within the
contribution limits, none of the earnings or gains
on contributions (deductible or nondeductible)
will be taxed until they are distributed. See
When Can Y ou Withdraw or Use IRA Assets ,
later.
Cost basis. Y ou will have a cost basis in your
traditional IRA if you made any nondeductible
contributions. Y our cost basis is the sum of the
nondeductible contributions to your IRA minus
any withdrawals or distributions of nondeductible contributions.
CAUTION
!
Inherited IRAs
If you inherit a traditional IRA, you are called a
beneficiary. A beneficiary can be any person or
entity the owner chooses to receive the benefits
of the IRA after the owner dies. Beneficiaries of
a traditional IRA must include in their gross income any taxable distributions they receive.
Inherited from spouse.  If you inherit a traditional IRA from your spouse, you generally have
the following three choices.
1. T reat it as your own IRA by designating
yourself as the account owner.
2. T reat it as your own by rolling it over into
your IRA, or to the extent it is taxable, into
a:
a. Qualified employer plan,
b. Qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a) plan),
c. T ax-sheltered annuity plan (section
403(b) plan), or
d. Deferred compensation plan of a state
or local government (section 457
plan).
3. T reat yourself as the beneficiary rather
than treating the IRA as your own.
Treating it as your own. Y ou will be considered to have chosen to treat the IRA as your
own if:
• Contributions (including rollover contributions) are made to the inherited IRA, or
• Y ou don't take the required minimum distribution for a year as a beneficiary of the
IRA.
Y ou will only be considered to have chosen to
treat the IRA as your own if:
• Y ou are the sole beneficiary of the IRA, and
• Y ou have an unlimited right to withdraw
amounts from it.
However, if you receive a distribution from
your deceased spouse's IRA, you can roll that
distribution over into your own IRA within the
60-day time limit, as long as the distribution isn't
a required distribution, even if you aren't the
sole beneficiary of your deceased spouse's
IRA.
Inherited from someone other than spouse.
If you inherit a traditional IRA from anyone other
than your deceased spouse, you can't treat the
Worksheet 9-1. Figuring Your Modified AGI
Keep for Y our Records
Use this worksheet to figure your modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes.
1. Enter your AGI from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11a, figured without taking into account the amount from
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20 ....................................................... 1.
2. Enter any student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 21 .................... 2.
3. Enter any foreign earned income and/or housing exclusion from Form 2555, line 45 ................. 3.
4. Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50 .................................. 4.
5. Enter any excludable savings bond interest from Form 8815, line 14 ............................. 5.
6. Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 8839, line 30 .................. 6.
7. Add lines 1 through 6. This is your modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes ...................... 7.
Page 84 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
82 Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 85]
inherited IRA as your own. This means that you
can't make any contributions to the IRA. It also
means you can't roll over any amounts into or
out of the inherited IRA. However, you can make
a trustee-to-trustee transfer as long as the IRA
into which amounts are being moved is set up
and maintained in the name of the deceased
IRA owner for the benefit of you as beneficiary.
For more information, see Inherited IRAs under Rollover From One IRA Into Another, later.
Can You Move Retirement
Plan Assets?
Y ou can transfer, tax free, assets (money or
property) from other retirement plans (including
traditional IRAs) to a traditional IRA. Y ou can
make the following kinds of transfers.
• T ransfers from one trustee to another.
• Rollovers.
• T ransfers incident to a divorce.
Transfers to Roth IRAs.  Under certain conditions, you can move assets from a traditional
IRA or from a designated Roth account to a
Roth IRA. Y ou can also move assets from a
qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA. See Can
Y ou Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA?  under
Roth IRAs later.
Trustee-to-Trustee Transfer
A transfer of funds in your traditional IRA from
one trustee directly to another, either at your request or at the trustee's request, isn't a rollover.
This includes the situation where the current
trustee issues a check to the new trustee, but
gives it to you to deposit. Because there is no
distribution to you, the transfer is tax free. Because it isn't a rollover, it isn't affected by the
1-year waiting period required between rollovers, discussed later under Rollover From One
IRA Into Another . For information about direct
transfers to IRAs from retirement plans other
than IRAs, see Can Y ou Move Retirement Plan
Assets? in chapter 1 and Can Y ou Move
Amounts Into a Roth IRA?  in chapter 2 of Pub.
590-A.
Rollovers
Generally, a rollover is a tax -free distribution to
you of cash or other assets from one retirement
plan that you contribute (roll over) to another retirement plan. The contribution to the second
retirement plan is called a rollover contribution.
Note: An amount rolled over tax free from
one retirement plan to another is generally includible in income when it is distributed from the
second plan.
Kinds of rollovers to a traditional IRA.  Y ou
can roll over amounts from the following plans
into a traditional IRA.
• A traditional IRA.
• An employer's qualified retirement plan for
its employees.
• A deferred compensation plan of a state or
local government (section 457 plan).
• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section
403(b) plan).
Treatment of rollovers.  Y ou can't deduct a
rollover contribution, but you must report the
rollover distribution on your tax return as discussed later under Reporting rollovers from
IRAs and Reporting rollovers from employer
plans.
Rollover notice.  A written explanation of
rollover treatment must be given to you by the
plan (other than an IRA) making the distribution.
See Written explanation to recipients  in Pub.
590-A.
Kinds of rollovers from a traditional IRA.
Y ou may be able to roll over, tax free, a distribution from your traditional IRA into a qualified
plan. These plans include the federal Thrift Savings Plan (for federal employees), deferred
compensation plans of state or local governments (section 457 plans), and tax -sheltered
annuity plans (section 403(b) plans). The part of
the distribution that you can roll over is the part
that would otherwise be taxable (includible in
your income). Qualified plans may, but aren't required to, accept such rollovers.
Time limit for making a rollover contribution. Y ou must generally make the rollover contribution by the 60th day after the day you receive the distribution from your traditional IRA or
your employer's plan.
The IRS may waive the 60 -day requirement
where the failure to do so would be against
equity or good conscience, such as in the event
of a casualty, disaster, or other event beyond
your reasonable control. For more information,
see Can Y ou Move Retirement Plan Assets? in
chapter 1 of Pub. 590-A.
Extension of rollover period.  If an amount
distributed to you from a traditional IRA or a
qualified employer retirement plan is a frozen
deposit at any time during the 60 -day period allowed for a rollover, special rules extend the rollover period. For more information, see Can Y ou
Move Retirement Plan Assets?  in chapter 1 of
Pub. 590-A.
Rollover From One IRA Into
Another
Y ou can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from one traditional IRA if you reinvest
them within 60 days in the same or another traditional IRA. Because this is a rollover, you can't
deduct the amount that you reinvest in an IRA.
Waiting period between rollovers. Generally,
if you make a tax -free rollover of any part of a
distribution from a traditional IRA, you can't,
within a 1 -year period, make a tax -free rollover
of any later distribution from that same IRA. Y ou
also can't make a tax -free rollover of any
amount distributed, within the same 1 -year period, from the IRA into which you made the
tax-free rollover.
The 1-year period begins on the date you receive the IRA distribution, not on the date you
roll it over into an IRA. Rules apply to the number of rollovers you can have with your traditional IRAs. See Application of one-rollover limitation next.
Application of one -rollover limitation.  Y ou
can make only one rollover from an IRA to another (or the same) IRA in any 1-year period, regardless of the number of IRAs you own. The
limit applies by aggregating all of an individual's
IRAs (whether traditional, Roth, or SIMPLE), effectively treating them as one IRA for purposes
of the limit. However, trustee-to-trustee transfers
between IRAs aren't limited and rollovers from
traditional IRAs to Roth IRAs (conversions)
aren't limited.
Example. Y ou have three traditional IRAs:
IRA-1, IRA -2, and IRA -3. Y ou didn't take any
distributions from your IRAs in 2025. On January 1, 2026, you took a distribution from IRA -1
and rolled it over into IRA -2 on the same day.
For 2026, you can't roll over any other 2025 IRA
distribution, including a rollover distribution involving IRA -3. This wouldn’t apply to a
trustee-to-trustee transfer or a Roth IRA conversion.
Partial rollovers. If you withdraw assets from a
traditional IRA, you can roll over part of the withdrawal tax free and keep the rest of it. The
amount you keep will generally be taxable (except for the part that is a return of nondeductible
contributions). The amount you keep may be
subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions, discussed later under What Acts Result
in Penalties or Additional T axes.
Required distributions.  Amounts that must
be distributed during a particular year under the
required minimum distribution  rules (discussed
later) aren't eligible for rollover treatment.
Inherited IRAs. If you inherit a traditional IRA
from your spouse, you can generally roll it over,
or you can choose to make the inherited IRA
your own. See T reating it as your own, earlier.
Not inherited from spouse.  If you inherit a
traditional IRA from someone other than your
spouse, you can't roll it over or allow it to receive
a rollover contribution. Y ou must withdraw the
IRA assets within a certain period. For more information, see When Must Y ou Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions)  in
chapter 1 of Pub. 590-B.
Reporting rollovers from IRAs.  Report any
rollover from one traditional IRA to the same or
another traditional IRA on Form 1040 or
1040-SR as follows.
Enter the total amount of the distribution on
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, line 4a. If the total
amount on Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, line 4a, was
rolled over, enter zero on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 4b. If the total distribution wasn't
rolled over, enter the taxable portion of the part
that wasn't rolled over on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 4b. Check the box on line 4c for
rollovers. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 1040.
If you rolled over the distribution into a qualified plan (other than an IRA) or you make the
rollover in 2026, attach a statement explaining
what you did.
Page 85 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 83

[PAGE 86]
Rollover From Employer's Plan
Into an IRA
Y ou can roll over into a traditional IRA all or part
of an eligible rollover distribution you receive
from your (or your deceased spouse's):
• Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan;
• Annuity plan;
• T ax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b)
plan); or
• Governmental deferred compensation plan
(section 457 plan).
A qualified plan is one that meets the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code.
Eligible rollover distribution.  Generally, an
eligible rollover distribution is any distribution of
all or part of the balance to your credit in a qualified retirement plan except the following.
1. A required minimum distribution (explained later under When Must Y ou Withdraw IRA Assets? (Required Minimum
Distributions)).
2. A hardship distribution.
3. Any of a series of substantially equal periodic distributions paid at least once a year
over:
a. Y our lifetime or life expectancy,
b. The lifetimes or life expectancies of
you and your beneficiary, or
c. A period of 10 years or more.
4. Corrective distributions of excess contributions or excess deferrals, and any income
allocable to the excess, or of excess annual additions and any allocable gains.
5. A loan treated as a distribution because it
doesn't satisfy certain requirements either
when made or later (such as upon default), unless the participant's accrued
benefits are reduced (offset) to repay the
loan. For more information, see Plan loan
offsets under Time Limit for Making a Rollover Contribution in Pub. 590-A.
6. Dividends on employer securities.
7. The cost of life insurance coverage.
Y our rollover into a traditional IRA may include both amounts that would be taxable and
amounts that wouldn’t be taxable if they were
distributed to you but not rolled over. T o the extent the distribution is rolled over into a traditional IRA, it isn’t includible in your income.
Any nontaxable amounts that you roll
over into your traditional IRA become
part of your basis (cost) in your IRAs.
T o recover your basis when you take distributions from your IRA, you must complete Form
8606 for the year of the distribution. See Form
8606 under Distributions Fully or Partly T axable,
later.
Rollover by nonspouse beneficiary. A direct
transfer from a deceased employee's qualified
pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan; annuity plan; tax -sheltered annuity (section
403(b)) plan; or governmental deferred compensation (section 457) plan to an IRA set up to
TIP
receive the distribution on your behalf can be
treated as an eligible rollover distribution if you
are the designated beneficiary of the plan and
not the employee's spouse. The IRA is treated
as an inherited IRA. For more information about
inherited IRAs, see Inherited IRAs, earlier.
Reporting rollovers from employer plans.
Enter the total distribution (before income tax or
other deductions were withheld) on Form 1040
or 1040 -SR, line 4a. This amount should be
shown in box 1 of Form 1099 -R, Distributions
From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or
Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc. From this amount, subtract any contributions (usually shown in box 5 of Form
1099-R) that were taxable to you when made.
From that result, subtract the amount that was
rolled over either directly or within 60 days of receiving the distribution. Enter the remaining
amount, even if zero, on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 4b. Check the box on line 4c for
rollovers.
Transfers Incident to Divorce
If an interest in a traditional IRA is transferred
from your spouse or former spouse to you by a
divorce or separate maintenance decree or a
written document related to such a decree, the
interest in the IRA, starting from the date of the
transfer, is treated as your IRA. The transfer is
tax free. For detailed information, see Distributions under divorce or similar proceedings (alternate payees) under Rollover From Employer's Plan Into an IRA in Pub. 590-A.
Converting From Any Traditional
IRA to a Roth IRA
Allowable conversions. Y ou can withdraw all
or part of the assets from a traditional IRA and
reinvest them (within 60 days) in a Roth IRA.
The amount that you withdraw and timely contribute (convert) to the Roth IRA is called a conversion contribution. If properly (and timely) rolled over, the 10% additional tax on early
distributions won't apply. However, a part or all
of the conversion contribution from your traditional IRA is included in your gross income.
Required distributions.  Y ou can't convert
amounts that must be distributed from your traditional IRA for a particular year (including the
calendar year in which you reach age 73 under
the required minimum distribution  rules (discussed later)).
Income. Y ou must include in your gross income distributions from a traditional IRA that
you would have had to include in income if you
hadn't converted them into a Roth IRA. These
amounts are normally included in income on
your return for the year that you converted them
from a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
Y ou don't include in gross income any part of
a distribution from a traditional IRA that is a return of your basis, as discussed later.
Y ou must file Form 8606 to report 2025 conversions from traditional, SEP , or SIMPLE IRAs
to a Roth IRA in 2025 (unless you recharacterized the entire amount) and to figure the amount
to include in income.
If you must include any amount in your gross
income, you may have to increase your withholding or make estimated tax payments. See
chapter 4.
Recharacterizations
Y ou may be able to treat a contribution made to
one type of IRA as having been made to a different type of IRA. This is called recharacterizing the contribution. See Can Y ou Move Retirement Plan Assets?  in chapter 1 of Pub. 590 -A
for more detailed information.
How to recharacterize a contribution.  T o recharacterize a contribution, you must generally
have the contribution transferred from the first
IRA (the one to which it was made) to the second IRA in a trustee -to-trustee transfer. If the
transfer is made by the due date (including extensions) for your tax return for the year during
which the contribution was made, you can elect
to treat the contribution as having been originally made to the second IRA instead of to the
first IRA. If you recharacterize your contribution,
you must do all three of the following.
• Include in the transfer any net income allocable to the contribution. If there was a
loss, the net income you must transfer may
be a negative amount.
• Report the recharacterization on your tax
return for the year during which the contribution was made.
• T reat the contribution as having been
made to the second IRA on the date that it
was actually made to the first IRA.
No recharacterizations of conversions
made in 2018 or later. A conversion of a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, and a rollover from any
other eligible retirement plan to a Roth IRA,
made in tax years beginning after tax year
2017, can’t be recharacterized as having been
made to a traditional IRA. If you made a conversion in the 2017 tax year, you had until the due
date (including extensions) for filing the return
for that tax year to recharacterize it.
No deduction allowed.  Y ou can't deduct the
contribution to the first IRA. Any net income you
transfer with the recharacterized contribution is
treated as earned in the second IRA.
How do you recharacterize a contribution?
T o recharacterize a contribution, you must notify
both the trustee of the first IRA (the one to
which the contribution was actually made) and
the trustee of the second IRA (the one to which
the contribution is being moved) that you have
elected to treat the contribution as having been
made to the second IRA rather than the first.
Y ou must make the notifications by the date of
the transfer. Only one notification is required if
both IRAs are maintained by the same trustee.
The notification(s) must include all of the following information.
• The type and amount of the contribution to
the first IRA that is to be recharacterized.
• The date on which the contribution was
made to the first IRA and the year for which
it was made.
• A direction to the trustee of the first IRA to
transfer in a trustee-to-trustee transfer the
Page 86 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
84 Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 87]
amount of the contribution and any net income (or loss) allocable to the contribution
to the trustee of the second IRA.
• The name of the trustee of the first IRA and
the name of the trustee of the second IRA.
• Any additional information needed to make
the transfer.
Reporting a recharacterization.  If you elect
to recharacterize a contribution to one IRA as a
contribution to another IRA, you must report the
recharacterization on your tax return as directed
by Form 8606 and its instructions. Y ou must
treat the contribution as having been made to
the second IRA.
When Can You Withdraw
or Use IRA Assets?
There are rules limiting use of your IRA assets
and distributions from it. Violation of the rules
generally results in additional taxes in the year
of violation. See What Acts Result in Penalties
or Additional T axes, later.
Contributions returned before the due date
of return.  If you made IRA contributions in
2025, you can withdraw them tax free by the
due date of your return. If you have an extension
of time to file your return, you can withdraw
them tax free by the extended due date. Y ou
can do this if, for each contribution you withdraw, both of the following conditions apply.
• Y ou didn't take a deduction for the contribution.
• Y ou withdraw any interest or other income
earned on the contribution. Y ou can take
into account any loss on the contribution
while it was in the IRA when figuring the
amount that must be withdrawn. If there
was a loss, the net income earned on the
contribution may be a negative amount.
Note: T o figure the amount you must withdraw, see Worksheet 1-4 under When Can Y ou
Withdraw or Use Assets?  in chapter 1 of Pub.
590-A.
Earnings includible in income.  Y ou must
include in income any earnings on the contributions you withdraw. Include the earnings in income for the year in which you made the contributions, not in the year in which you withdraw
them.
Generally, except for any part of a withdrawal that is a return of nondeductible
contributions (basis), any withdrawal of
your contributions after the due date (or extended due date) of your return will be treated as a
taxable distribution. Excess contributions can
also be recovered tax free as discussed under
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional
T axes, later.
Early distributions tax.  The 10% additional
tax on distributions made before you reach age
591/2 doesn't apply to these tax -free withdrawals of your contributions. However, the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 and, unless the distribution
qualifies for an exception to the age 591/2 rule, it
will be subject to this tax. See Early DistribuCAUTION
!
tions under What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional T axes? in Pub. 590-B.
When Must You Withdraw
IRA Assets? (Required
Minimum Distributions)
Y ou can't keep funds in a traditional IRA indefinitely. Eventually, they must be distributed. If
there are no distributions, or if the distributions
aren't large enough, you may have to pay a 25%
excise tax on the amount not distributed as required. See Excess Accumulations (Insufficient
Distributions), later. The requirements for distributing IRA funds differ depending on whether
you are the IRA owner or the beneficiary of a
decedent's IRA.
Required minimum distribution. The amount
that must be distributed each year is referred to
as the “required minimum distribution.”
Distributions not eligible for rollover.
Amounts that must be distributed (required minimum distributions) during a particular year
aren't eligible for rollover treatment.
IRA owners.  If you are the owner of a traditional IRA, you must generally start receiving
distributions from your IRA by April 1 of the year
following the year in which you reach age 73.
April 1 of the year following the year in which
you reach age 73 is referred to as the “applicable required beginning date.”
Distributions by the required beginning
date. Y ou must receive at least a minimum
amount for each year starting with the year you
reach age 73. If you don't (or didn't) receive that
minimum amount in the year you become age
73, then you must receive distributions for the
year you become age 73 by April 1 of the next
year.
If an IRA owner dies after reaching age 73
but before April 1 of the next year, no minimum
distribution is required because death occurred
before the required beginning date.
Individuals who reach age 72 after December 31, 2022, must begin receiving
their required minimum distributions by
April 1 of the year following the year they reach
age 73.
Even if you begin receiving distributions before you attain age 73, you
must begin figuring and receiving required minimum distributions by your required
beginning date.
Distributions after the required beginning
date. The required minimum distribution for
any year after the year you turn age 73 must be
made by December 31 of that later year.
Beneficiaries. If you are the beneficiary of a
decedent's traditional IRA, the requirements for
distributions from that IRA generally depend on
whether the IRA owner died before or after the
required beginning date for distributions.
More information.  For more information, including how to figure your required minimum
distribution each year and how to figure your required distribution if you are a beneficiary of a
TIP
CAUTION
!
decedent's IRA, see When Must Y ou Withdraw
Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions)  in
chapter 1 of Pub. 590-B.
Are Distributions Taxable?
In general, distributions from a traditional IRA
are taxable in the year you receive them.
Exceptions. Exceptions to distributions from
traditional IRAs being taxable in the year you receive them are:
• Rollovers;
• Qualified charitable distributions (QCDs),
discussed later;
• T ax-free withdrawals of contributions, discussed earlier; and
• The return of nondeductible contributions,
discussed later under Distributions Fully or
Partly T axable.
Although a conversion of a traditional
IRA is considered a rollover for Roth
IRA purposes, it isn't an exception to
the rule that distributions from a traditional IRA
are taxable in the year you receive them. Conversion distributions are includible in your gross
income subject to this rule and the special rules
for conversions explained in Converting From
Any T raditional IRA Into a Roth IRA  under Can
Y ou Move Retirement Plan Assets? in chapter 1
of Pub. 590-A.
Qualified charitable distributions (QCDs). A
QCD is generally a nontaxable distribution
made directly by the trustee of your IRA to an
organization eligible to receive tax deductible
contributions. See Qualified Charitable Distributions in Pub. 590-B for more information.
A QCD will count towards your required
minimum distribution. See Qualified
charitable distributions  under Are Distributions T axable? in chapter 1 of Pub. 590 -B
for more information.
Ordinary income.  Distributions from traditional IRAs that you include in income are taxed
as ordinary income.
No special treatment. In figuring your tax, you
can't use the 10 -year tax option or capital gain
treatment that applies to lump -sum distributions
from qualified retirement plans.
Distributions Fully or Partly
Taxable
Distributions from your traditional IRA may be
fully or partly taxable, depending on whether
your IRA includes any nondeductible contributions.
Fully taxable.  If only deductible contributions
were made to your traditional IRA (or IRAs, if
you have more than one), you have no basis in
your IRA. Because you have no basis in your
IRA, any distributions are fully taxable when received. See Reporting taxable distributions on
your return, later.
Partly taxable.  If you made nondeductible
contributions or rolled over any after -tax
amounts to any of your traditional IRAs, you
have a cost basis (investment in the contract)
CAUTION
!
TIP
Page 87 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 85

[PAGE 88]
equal to the amount of those contributions.
These nondeductible contributions aren't taxed
when they are distributed to you. They are a return of your investment in your IRA.
Only the part of the distribution that represents nondeductible contributions and rolled
over after -tax amounts (your cost basis) is tax
free. If nondeductible contributions have been
made or after -tax amounts have been rolled
over to your IRA, distributions consist partly of
nondeductible contributions (basis) and partly
of deductible contributions, earnings, and gains
(if there are any). Until all of your basis has
been distributed, each distribution is partly nontaxable and partly taxable.
Form 8606.  Y ou must complete Form 8606
and attach it to your return if you receive a distribution from a traditional IRA and have ever
made nondeductible contributions or rolled over
after-tax amounts to any of your traditional
IRAs. Using the form, you will figure the nontaxable distributions for 2025 and your total IRA
basis for 2025 and earlier years.
Note: If you are required to file Form 8606
but you aren't required to file an income tax return, you must still file Form 8606. Send it to the
IRS at the time and place you would otherwise
file an income tax return.
Distributions reported on Form 1099 -R. If
you receive a distribution from your traditional
IRA, you will receive Form 1099 -R, or a similar
statement. IRA distributions are shown in boxes
1 and 2a of Form 1099 -R. The number or letter
codes in box 7 tell you what type of distribution
you received from your IRA.
Withholding. Federal income tax is withheld
from distributions from traditional IRAs unless
you choose not to have tax withheld. See chapter 4.
IRA distributions delivered outside the
United States. In general, if you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien and your home address is
outside the United States or its territories, you
can't choose exemption from withholding on
distributions from your traditional IRA.
Reporting taxable distributions on your return. Report fully taxable distributions, including early distributions, on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 4b (no entry is required on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 4a). If only part of the distribution is taxable, enter the total amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 4a, and the taxable
part on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 4b.
What Acts Result in
Penalties or Additional
Taxes?
The tax advantages of using traditional IRAs for
retirement savings can be offset by additional
taxes and penalties if you don't follow the rules.
There are additions to the regular tax for using your IRA funds in prohibited transactions.
There are also additional taxes for the following
activities.
• Investing in collectibles.
• Having unrelated business income; see
Pub. 590-B.
• Making excess contributions.
• T aking early distributions.
• Allowing excess amounts to accumulate
(failing to take required distributions).
There are penalties for overstating the
amount of nondeductible contributions and for
failure to file a Form 8606, if required.
Prohibited Transactions
Generally, a prohibited transaction is any improper use of your IRA by you, your beneficiary,
or any disqualified person.
Disqualified persons include your fiduciary
and members of your family (spouse, ancestor,
lineal descendent, and any spouse of a lineal
descendent).
The following are examples of prohibited
transactions with an IRA.
• Borrowing money from it; see Pub. 590-B.
• Selling property to it.
• Using it as security for a loan.
• Buying property for personal use (present
or future) with IRA funds.
Effect on an IRA account.  Generally, if you or
your beneficiary engages in a prohibited transaction in connection with your IRA account at
any time during the year, the account stops being an IRA as of the first day of that year.
Effect on you or your beneficiary. If your account stops being an IRA because you or your
beneficiary engaged in a prohibited transaction,
the account is treated as distributing all its assets to you at their fair market values on the first
day of the year. If the total of those values is
more than your basis in the IRA, you will have a
taxable gain that is includible in your income.
For information on figuring your gain and reporting it in income, see Are Distributions T axable,
earlier. The distribution may be subject to additional taxes.
Taxes on prohibited transactions.  If someone other than the owner or beneficiary of a IRA
engages in a prohibited transaction, that person
may be liable for certain taxes. In general, there
is a 15% tax on the amount of the prohibited
transaction and a 100% additional tax if the
transaction isn't corrected.
More information.  For more information on
prohibited transactions, see What Acts Result in
Penalties or Additional T axes?  in chapter 1 of
Pub. 590-A.
Investment in Collectibles
If your IRA invests in collectibles, the amount invested is considered distributed to you in the
year invested. Y ou may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early distributions , discussed
later.
Collectibles. These include:
• Artworks,
• Rugs,
• Antiques,
• Metals,
• Gems,
• Stamps,
• Coins,
• Alcoholic beverages, and
• Certain other tangible personal property.
Exception. Y our IRA can invest in one -,
one-half-, one-quarter-, or one-tenth-ounce U.S.
gold coins, or one -ounce silver coins minted by
the T reasury Department. It can also invest in
certain platinum coins and certain gold, silver,
palladium, and platinum bullion.
Excess Contributions
Generally, an excess contribution is the amount
contributed to your traditional IRA(s) for the year
that is more than the smaller of:
• The maximum deductible amount for the
year (for 2025, this is $7,000 ($8,000 if you
are 50 or older)); or
• Y our taxable compensation for the year.
An excess contribution could be the result of
your contribution, your spouse's contribution,
your employer's contribution, or an improper
rollover contribution. If your employer makes
contributions under a SEP arrangement on your
behalf to a SEP IRA, see chapter 2 of Pub. 560.
Tax on excess contributions.  In general, if
the excess contributions for a year aren't withdrawn by the date your return for the year is due
(including extensions), you are subject to a 6%
tax. Y ou must pay the 6% tax each year on excess amounts that remain in your traditional IRA
at the end of your tax year. The tax can't be
more than 6% of the combined value of all your
IRAs as of the end of your tax year. The additional tax is figured on Form 5329.
Excess contributions withdrawn by due
date of return.  Y ou won't have to pay the 6%
tax if you withdraw an excess contribution made
during a tax year and you also withdraw interest
or other income earned on the excess contribution. Y ou must complete your withdrawal by the
date your tax return for that year is due, including extensions.
How to treat withdrawn contributions.
Don't include in your gross income an excess
contribution that you withdraw from your traditional IRA before your tax return is due if both
the following conditions are met.
• No deduction was allowed for the excess
contribution.
• Y ou withdraw the interest or other income
earned on the excess contribution.
Y ou can take into account any loss on the contribution while it was in the IRA when figuring
the amount that must be withdrawn. If there was
a loss, the net income you must withdraw may
be a negative amount.
How to treat withdrawn interest or other
income. Y ou must include in your gross income the interest or other income that was
earned on the excess contribution. Report it on
your return for the year in which the excess contribution was made. Y our withdrawal of interest
or other income may be subject to an additional
10% tax on early distributions, discussed later.
Beginning on or after December 29, 2022,
the 10% additional tax will not apply to your
withdrawal of interest or other income, if
Page 88 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
86 Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 89]
withdrawn on or before the due date (including
extensions) of the income tax return. See Pub.
590-B for more information.
Excess contributions withdrawn after due
date of return. In general, you must include all
distributions (withdrawals) from your traditional
IRA in your gross income. However, if the following conditions are met, you can withdraw excess contributions from your IRA and not include the amount withdrawn in your gross
income.
• T otal contributions (other than rollover contributions) for 2025 to your IRA weren't
more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or
older).
• Y ou didn't take a deduction for the excess
contribution being withdrawn.
The withdrawal can take place at any time, even
after the due date, including extensions, for filing your tax return for the year.
Excess contribution deducted in an earlier
year. If you deducted an excess contribution in
an earlier year for which the total contributions
weren't more than the maximum deductible
amount for that year (see the following table),
you can still remove the excess from your traditional IRA and not include it in your gross income. T o do this, file Form 1040-X for that year
and don't deduct the excess contribution on the
amended return. Generally, you can file an
amended return within 3 years after you filed
your return or 2 years from the time the tax was
paid, whichever is later.
Year(s)
Contribution
 limit
Contribution
limit if 50 or
older at the
end of the
year
2024 $7,000 $8,000
2023 $6,500 $7,500
2019 through
2022 $6,000 $7,000
2013 through
2018 $5,500 $6,500
2008 through
2012 $5,000 $6,000
2006 or 2007 $4,000 $5,000
2005 $4,000 $4,500
2002 through
2004 $3,000 $3,500
1997 through
2001 $2,000 —
before 1997 $2,250 —
Excess due to incorrect rollover information. If an excess contribution in your traditional
IRA is the result of a rollover and the excess occurred because the information the plan was required to give you was incorrect, you can withdraw the excess contribution. The limits
mentioned above are increased by the amount
of the excess that is due to the incorrect information. Y ou will have to amend your return for
the year in which the excess occurred to correct
the reporting of the rollover amounts in that
year. Don't include in your gross income the
part of the excess contribution caused by the incorrect information. For more information, see
Excess Contributions under What Acts Result in
Penalties or Additional T axes? in Pub. 590-A.
Early Distributions
Y ou must include early distributions of taxable
amounts from your traditional IRA in your gross
income. Early distributions are also subject to
the 10% additional tax. See the discussion of
Form 5329 under Reporting Additional T axes,
later, to figure and report the tax.
Early distributions defined.  Early distributions are generally amounts distributed from
your traditional IRA account or annuity before
you are age 591/2.
Age 591/2 rule. Generally, if you are under age
591/2, you must pay a 10% additional tax on the
distribution of any assets (money or other property) from your traditional IRA. Distributions before you are age 59 1/2 are called early distributions.
The 10% additional tax applies to the part of
the distribution that you have to include in gross
income. It is in addition to any regular income
tax on that amount.
After age 59 1/2 and before age 73.  After
you reach age 59 1/2, you can receive distributions without having to pay the 10% additional
tax. Even though you can receive distributions
after you reach age 591/2, distributions aren't required until you reach age 73. See When Must
Y ou Withdraw IRA Assets? (Required Minimum
Distributions), earlier.
Exceptions. There are several exceptions to
the age 591/2 rule. Even if you receive a distribution before you are age 59 1/2, you may not have
to pay the 10% additional tax if you are in one of
the following situations.
• Y ou have unreimbursed medical expenses
that are more than 7.5% of your AGI.
• The distribution is for the cost of your medical insurance due to a period of unemployment.
• Y ou are totally and permanently disabled.
• Y ou have been certified as having a terminal illness.
• Y ou are the beneficiary of a deceased IRA
owner.
• Y ou are receiving distributions in the form
of a series of substantially equal periodic
payments.
• The distribution is income on a corrective
distribution.
• The distribution is for your qualified higher
education expenses.
• Y ou use the distributions to buy, build, or
rebuild a first home.
• The distribution is due to an IRS levy of the
IRA.
• The distribution is a qualified reservist distribution.
• Y ou are a victim of domestic abuse.
• The distribution is for eligible emergency
personal expenses.
Most of these exceptions are explained under
Early Distributions  under What Acts Result in
Penalties or Additional T axes?  in chapter 1 of
Pub. 590-B.
Note: Distributions that are timely and properly rolled over, as discussed earlier, aren't subject to either regular income tax or the 10% additional tax. Certain withdrawals of excess
contributions after the due date of your return
are also tax free and therefore not subject to the
10% additional tax. (See Excess contributions
withdrawn after due date of return , earlier.) This
also applies to transfers incident to divorce , as
discussed earlier.
Receivership distributions.  Early distributions (with or without your consent) from savings institutions placed in receivership are subject to this tax unless one of the exceptions
listed earlier applies. This is true even if the distribution is from a receiver that is a state agency.
Additional 10% tax.  The additional tax on
early distributions is 10% of the amount of the
early distribution that you must include in your
gross income. This tax is in addition to any regular income tax resulting from including the distribution in income.
Nondeductible contributions.  The tax on
early distributions doesn't apply to the part of a
distribution that represents a return of your nondeductible contributions (basis).
More information.  For more information on
early distributions, see What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional T axes? in chapter 1 of Pub.
590-B.
Excess Accumulations
(Insufficient Distributions)
Y ou can't keep amounts in your traditional IRA
indefinitely. Generally, you must begin receiving
distributions by April 1 of the year following the
year in which you reach age 73. The required
minimum distribution for any year after the year
in which you reach age 73 must be made by
December 31 of that later year.
Tax on excess accumulations. If distributions
are less than the required minimum distribution
for the year, you may have to pay a 25% excise
tax for that year on the amount not distributed
as required.
The excise tax on distributions that are
less than the required minimum distribution amount is reduced to 25% for
tax years beginning after December 29, 2022.
Also, there is an additional reduction to 10% for
taxpayers meeting additional requirements. See
Pub. 590-B for more information.
Request to waive the tax.  If the excess accumulation is due to reasonable error, and you
have taken, or are taking, steps to remedy the
insufficient distribution, you can request that the
tax be waived. If you believe you qualify for this
relief, attach a statement of explanation and
complete Form 5329 as instructed under
Waiver of tax for reasonable cause  in the Instructions for Form 5329.
Exemption from tax. If you are unable to take
required distributions because you have a traditional IRA invested in a contract issued by an insurance company that is in state insurer
TIP
Page 89 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 87

[PAGE 90]
delinquency proceedings, the 25% excise tax
doesn't apply if the conditions and requirements
of Revenue Procedure 92-10 are satisfied.
More information.  For more information on
excess accumulations, see What Acts Result in
Penalties or Additional T axes?  in chapter 1 of
Pub. 590-B.
Reporting Additional Taxes
Generally, you must use Form 5329 to report
the tax on excess contributions, early distributions, and excess accumulations.
Filing a tax return.  If you must file an individual income tax return, complete Form 5329 and
attach it to your Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. Enter
the total additional taxes due on Schedule 2
(Form 1040), line 8.
Not filing a tax return.  If you don't have to file
a tax return but do have to pay one of the additional taxes mentioned earlier, file the completed Form 5329 with the IRS at the time and
place you would have filed your Form 1040 or
1040-SR. Be sure to include your address on
page 1 and your signature and date on page 3.
For payment options, see the Instructions for
Form 1040 or the Instructions for Form
1040-NR, or go to IRS.gov/Payments to see all
your payment options.
Form 5329 not required.  Y ou don't have to
use Form 5329 if any of the following situations
exist.
• Distribution code 1 (early distribution) is
correctly shown in box 7 of all your Forms
1099-R. If you don't owe any other additional tax on a distribution, multiply the taxable part of the early distribution by 10%
(0.10) and enter the result on Schedule 2
(Form 1040), line 8. If you don't have to file
Form 5329, check the box next to the entry
space after the text “if not required, check
here.” However, if you owe this tax and also
owe any other additional tax on a distribution, don't enter this 10% additional tax directly on your Form 1040 or 1040-SR. Y ou
must file Form 5329 to report your additional taxes.
• If you rolled over part or all of a distribution
from a qualified retirement plan or IRA, the
part rolled over isn't subject to the tax on
early distributions.
• If you have a qualified disaster distribution.
Roth IRAs
Regardless of your age, you may be able to establish and make nondeductible contributions to
a retirement plan called a Roth IRA.
Contributions not reported.  Y ou don't report
Roth IRA contributions on your return.
What Is a Roth IRA?
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement plan that,
except as explained in this chapter, is subject to
the rules that apply to a traditional IRA (defined
earlier). It can be either an account or an annuity. Individual retirement accounts and annuities
are described under How Can a T raditional IRA
Be Opened? in chapter 1 of Pub. 590-A.
T o be a Roth IRA, the account or annuity
must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is
opened.
Unlike a traditional IRA, you can't deduct
contributions to a Roth IRA. But, if you satisfy
the requirements, qualified distributions  (discussed later) are tax free. Y ou can leave
amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live.
When Can a Roth IRA Be
Opened?
Y ou can open a Roth IRA at any time. However,
the time for making contributions for any year is
limited. See When Can Y ou Make Contributions
under Can Y ou Contribute to a Roth IRA? next.
Can You Contribute to a
Roth IRA?
Generally, you can contribute to a Roth IRA if
you have taxable compensation  (defined later)
and your modified AGI  (defined later) is less
than:
• $246,000 for married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse;
• $165,000 for single, head of household, or
married filing separately and you didn't live
with your spouse at any time during the
year; or
• $10,000 for married filing separately and
you lived with your spouse at any time during the year.
Y ou may be eligible to claim a credit for
contributions to your Roth IRA. For
more information, see chapter 3 of Pub.
590-A.
Is there an age limit for contributions? Contributions can be made to your Roth IRA regardless of your age.
Can you contribute to a Roth IRA for your
spouse? Y ou can contribute to a Roth IRA for
your spouse provided the contributions satisfy
the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA limit (discussed under How Much Can Be Contributed ,
earlier, under T raditional IRAs), you file jointly,
and your modified AGI is less than $246,000.
Compensation. Compensation includes wages, salaries, tips, professional fees, bonuses,
and other amounts received for providing personal services. It also includes commissions,
self-employment income, nontaxable combat
pay, military differential pay, taxable alimony and
separate maintenance payments, and taxable
non-tuition fellowship and stipend payments.
See What is compensation, earlier, for more
information.
Modified AGI. Y our modified AGI for Roth IRA
purposes is your AGI as shown on your return
with some adjustments. Use Worksheet 9-2 to
determine your modified AGI.
TIP
Page 90 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
88 Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 91]
Worksheet 9-2. Modified AGI for Roth IRA Purposes Keep for Y our Records
Use this worksheet to figure your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes.
 1. Enter your AGI from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11a .............................. 1.
 2. Enter any income resulting from the conversion of an IRA (other than a Roth IRA) to a Roth
IRA (included on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 4b) and a rollover from a qualified retirement
plan to a Roth IRA (included on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b) ...................... 2.
 3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 .................................................... 3.
 4. Enter any traditional IRA deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20 .............. 4.
 5. Enter any student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 21 ......... 5.
 6. Enter any foreign earned income and/or housing exclusion from Form 2555, line 45 ...... 6.
 7. Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50 ........................ 7.
 8. Enter any excludable savings bond interest from Form 8815, line 14 .................. 8.
9. Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 8839, line 30 ........ 9.
10. Add the amounts on lines 3 through 9 .......................................... 10.
11. Enter:
• $246,000 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
• $10,000 if married filing separately and you lived with your
spouse at any time during the year, or
• $165,000 for all others .................................................... 11.
Is the amount on line 10 more than the amount on line 11?
If yes, then see the Note below.
If no, then the amount on line 10 is your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes.
Note: If the amount on line 10 is more than the amount on line 11 and you have other income or loss items, such as social
security income or passive activity losses, that are subject to AGI-based phaseouts, you can refigure your AGI solely for the
purpose of figuring your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes. (If you receive social security benefits, use Worksheet 1 in
Appendix B of Pub. 590-A to refigure your AGI.) Then, go to line 3 above in this Worksheet 9-2 to refigure your modified AGI. If
you don't have other income or loss items subject to AGI-based phaseouts, your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes is the
amount on line 10.
How Much Can Be Contributed?
The contribution limit for Roth IRAs generally
depends on whether contributions are made
only to Roth IRAs or to both traditional IRAs and
Roth IRAs.
Roth IRAs only. If contributions are made only
to Roth IRAs, your contribution limit is generally
the lesser of the following amounts.
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or older in
2025), or
• Y our taxable compensation.
However, if your modified AGI is above a certain
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced,
as explained later under Contribution limit reduced.
Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs.  If contributions are made to both Roth IRAs and traditional
IRAs established for your benefit, your contribution limit for Roth IRAs is generally the same as
your limit would be if contributions were made
only to Roth IRAs, but then reduced by all contributions for the year to all IRAs other than Roth
IRAs. Employer contributions under a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan don't affect this
limit.
This means that your contribution limit is
generally the lesser of the following amounts.
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or older in
2025) minus all contributions (other than
employer contributions under a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan) for the
year to all IRAs other than Roth IRAs.
• Y our taxable compensation minus all contributions (other than employer contributions under a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE
IRA plan) for the year to all IRAs other than
Roth IRAs.
However, if your modified AGI is above a certain
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced,
as explained next under Contribution limit reduced.
Contribution limit reduced.  If your modified
AGI is above a certain amount, your contribution limit is gradually reduced. Use T able 9-3 to
determine if this reduction applies to you.
Page 91 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 89

[PAGE 92]
T able 9-3. Effect of Modified AGI on Roth IRA Contribution
This table shows whether your contribution to a Roth IRA is affected by the amount of your modified AGI.
IF you have taxable compensation and
your filing status is...
AND your modified
AGI is... THEN...
Married filing jointly or
Qualifying surviving spouse
less than $236,000 you can contribute up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or
older in 2025).
at least $236,000
but less than $246,000
the amount you can contribute is reduced as explained
under Contribution limit reduced in chapter 2 of Pub.
590-A.
$246,000 or more you can't contribute to a Roth IRA.
Married filing separately and you lived
with your spouse at any time during the year
zero (-0-) you can contribute up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or
older in 2025).
more than zero (-0-)
but less than $10,000
the amount you can contribute is reduced as explained
under Contribution limit reduced in chapter 2 of Pub.
590-A.
$10,000 or more you can't contribute to a Roth IRA.
Single, Head of household, or Married
filing separately and you didn't live with
your spouse at any time during the year
less than $150,000 you can contribute up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are 50 or
older in 2025).
at least $150,000
but less than $165,000
the amount you can contribute is reduced as explained
under Contribution limit reduced in chapter 2 of Pub.
590-A.
$165,000 or more you can't contribute to a Roth IRA.
Figuring the reduction.  If the amount you
can contribute to your Roth IRA is reduced, see
Worksheet 2-2 under Can Y ou Contribute to a
Roth IRA? in chapter 2 of Pub. 590-A for how to
figure the reduction.
When Can You Make
Contributions?
Y ou can make contributions to a Roth IRA for a
year at any time during the year or by the due
date of your return for that year (not including
extensions).
Y ou can make contributions for 2025 by
the due date (not including extensions)
for filing your 2025 tax return.
What if You Contribute Too Much?
A 6% excise tax applies to any excess contribution to a Roth IRA.
Excess contributions.  These are the contributions to your Roth IRAs for a year that equal
the total of:
1. Amounts contributed for the tax year to
your Roth IRAs (other than amounts properly and timely rolled over from a Roth IRA
or properly converted from a traditional
IRA or rolled over from a qualified retirement plan, as described later) that are
more than your contribution limit for the
year; plus
2. Any excess contributions for the preceding
year, reduced by the total of:
a. Any distributions out of your Roth
IRAs for the year, plus
b. Y our contribution limit for the year minus your contributions to all your IRAs
for the year.
TIP
Withdrawal of excess contributions.  For
purposes of determining excess contributions,
any contribution that is withdrawn on or before
the due date (including extensions) for filing
your tax return for the year is treated as an
amount not contributed. This treatment applies
only if any earnings on the contributions are
also withdrawn. The earnings are considered to
have been earned and received in the year the
excess contribution was made.
Applying excess contributions.  If contributions to your Roth IRA for a year were more than
the limit, you can apply the excess contribution
in one year to a later year if the contributions for
that later year are less than the maximum allowed for that year.
Can You Move Amounts
Into a Roth IRA?
Y ou may be able to convert amounts from a traditional, SEP , or SIMPLE IRA into a Roth IRA.
Y ou may be able to roll amounts over from a
qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA. Y ou may
be able to recharacterize contributions made to
one IRA as having been made directly to a different IRA. Y ou can roll amounts over from a
designated Roth account or from one Roth IRA
to another Roth IRA.
Conversions
Y ou can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
The conversion is treated as a rollover, regardless of the conversion method used. Most of the
rules for rollovers, described earlier under Rollover From One IRA Into Another  under T raditional IRAs , apply to these rollovers. However,
the 1-year waiting period doesn't apply.
Conversion methods.  Y ou can convert
amounts from a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA in
any of the following ways.
• Rollover. Y ou can receive a distribution
from a traditional IRA and roll it over (contribute it) to a Roth IRA within 60 days after
the distribution.
• Trustee-to-trustee transfer. Y ou can direct the trustee of the traditional IRA to
transfer an amount from the traditional IRA
to the trustee of the Roth IRA.
• Same trustee transfer. If the trustee of
the traditional IRA also maintains the Roth
IRA, you can direct the trustee to transfer
an amount from the traditional IRA to the
Roth IRA.
Same trustee.  Conversions made with the
same trustee can be made by redesignating the
traditional IRA as a Roth IRA, rather than opening a new account or issuing a new contract.
Rollover from a qualified retirement plan
into a Roth IRA.  Y ou can roll over into a Roth
IRA all or part of an eligible rollover distribution
you receive from your (or your deceased spouse's):
• Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan;
• Annuity plan;
• T ax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b)
plan); or
• Governmental deferred compensation plan
(section 457 plan).
Any amount rolled over is subject to the same
rules as those for converting a traditional IRA
into a Roth IRA. Also, the rollover contribution
must meet the rollover requirements that apply
to the specific type of retirement plan.
Page 92 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
90 Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 93]
Income. Y ou must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement
plan that you would have had to include in income if you hadn't rolled them over into a Roth
IRA. Y ou don't include in gross income any part
of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan
that is a return of basis (after -tax contributions)
to the plan that was taxable to you when paid.
These amounts are normally included in income
on your return for the year of the rollover from
the qualified employer plan to a Roth IRA.
If you must include any amount in your
gross income, you may have to increase your withholding or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505, T ax Withholding and Estimated T ax.
For more information, see Rollover From
Employer's Plan Into a Roth IRA  in chapter 2 of
Pub. 590-A.
Converting from a SIMPLE IRA.  Generally,
you can convert an amount in your SIMPLE IRA
to a Roth IRA under the same rules explained
earlier under Converting From Any T raditional
IRA to a Roth IRA under T raditional IRAs.
However, you can't convert any amount distributed from the SIMPLE IRA plan during the
2-year period beginning on the date you first
participated in any SIMPLE IRA plan maintained by your employer.
More information. For more detailed information on conversions, see Can Y ou Move
Amounts Into a Roth IRA?  in chapter 2 of Pub.
590-A.
Rollover From a Roth IRA
Y ou can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from one Roth IRA if you contribute them
within 60 days to another Roth IRA. Most of the
rules for rollovers, explained earlier under Rollover From One IRA Into Another  under T raditional IRAs, apply to these rollovers.
Rollover from designated Roth account.  A
rollover from a designated Roth account can
CAUTION
!
only be made to another designated Roth account or to a Roth IRA. For more information
about designated Roth accounts, see Designated Roth accounts under Rollovers in Pub. 575.
Are Distributions Taxable?
Y ou don't include in your gross income qualified
distributions or distributions that are a return of
your regular contributions from your Roth
IRA(s). Y ou also don't include distributions from
your Roth IRA that you roll over tax free into another Roth IRA. Y ou may have to include part of
other distributions in your income. See Ordering
rules for distributions, later.
What are qualified distributions?  A qualified
distribution is any payment or distribution from
your Roth IRA that meets the following requirements.
1. It is made after the 5-year period beginning with the first tax year for which a contribution was made to a Roth IRA set up
for your benefit.
2. The payment or distribution is:
a. Made on or after the date you reach
age 591/2,
b. Made because you are disabled,
c. Made to a beneficiary or to your estate after your death, or
d. T o pay up to $10,000 (lifetime limit) of
certain qualified first-time homebuyer
amounts. See First home under What
Acts Result in Penalties or Additional
T axes? in chapter 1 of Pub. 590-B for
more information.
Additional tax on distributions of conversion and certain rollover contributions
within 5-year period. If, within the 5 -year period starting with the first day of your tax year in
which you convert an amount from a traditional
IRA or roll over an amount from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA, you take a distribution from a Roth IRA, you may have to pay the
10% additional tax on early distributions. Y ou
must generally pay the 10% additional tax on
any amount attributable to the part of the
amount converted or rolled over (the conversion
or rollover contribution) that you had to include
in income. A separate 5 -year period applies to
each conversion and rollover. See Ordering
rules for distributions , later, to determine the
amount, if any, of the distribution that is attributable to the part of the conversion or rollover
contribution that you had to include in income.
Additional tax on other early distributions.
Unless an exception applies, you must pay the
10% additional tax on the taxable part of any
distributions that aren't qualified distributions.
See Pub. 590-B for more information.
Ordering rules for distributions.  If you receive a distribution from your Roth IRA that isn't
a qualified distribution, part of it may be taxable.
There is a set order in which contributions (including conversion contributions and rollover
contributions from qualified retirement plans)
and earnings are considered to be distributed
from your Roth IRA. Regular contributions are
distributed first. See Ordering Rules for Distributions under Are Distributions T axable? in chapter 2 of Pub. 590-B for more information.
Must you withdraw or use Roth IRA assets?
Y ou aren't required to take distributions from
your Roth IRA at any age. The minimum distribution rules that apply to traditional IRAs don't
apply to Roth IRAs while the owner is alive.
However, after the death of a Roth IRA owner,
certain distribution rules that apply to traditional
IRAs also apply to Roth IRAs.
More information. For more detailed information on Roth IRAs, see chapter 2 of Pub. 590 -A
and Pub. 590-B.
Page 93 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 9 Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) 91

[PAGE 94]
Part Three.
Standard
Deduction,
Itemized
Deductions, and
Other
Deductions
After you have figured your adjusted gross income, you are ready to
subtract the deductions used to figure taxable income. Y ou can subtract
either the standard deduction or itemized deductions, and, if you qualify,
the qualified business income deduction. Itemized deductions are
deductions for certain expenses that are listed on Schedule A (Form 1040).
The three chapters in this part discuss the standard deduction and certain
itemized deductions. See chapter 10 for the factors to consider when
deciding whether to take the standard deduction or itemized deductions.
The Form 1040 and 1040-SR schedules that are discussed in these
chapters are:
• Schedule 1, Additional Income and Adjustments to Income;
• Schedule 2, Part II, Other T axes; and
• Schedule 3, Part I, Nonrefundable Credits.
10.
Standard
Deduction
What's New
Standard deduction increased.  The standard deduction for taxpayers who don't itemize
their deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040)
has increased. The amount of your standard
deduction depends on your filing status and
other factors. Use the 2025 Standard Deduction
T ables near the end of this chapter to figure
your standard deduction.
Enhanced deduction for seniors.  Beginning
in 2025, taxpayers who are age 65 or older may
be eligible for the enhanced deduction for seniors. The maximum amount of the deduction is
$6,000 per person. See Schedule 1 -A (Form
1040) and the Instructions for Form 1040 for
more information.
Introduction
This chapter discusses the following topics.
• How to figure the amount of your standard
deduction.
• The standard deduction for dependents.
• Who should itemize deductions.
Most taxpayers have a choice of either taking a standard deduction or itemizing their deductions. If you have a choice, you can use the
method that gives you the lower tax.
The standard deduction is a dollar amount
that reduces your taxable income. It is a benefit
that eliminates the need for many taxpayers to
itemize actual deductions, such as medical
expenses, charitable contributions, and taxes,
on Schedule A (Form 1040). The standard deduction is higher for taxpayers who:
• Are 65 or older, or
• Are blind.
Y ou benefit from the standard deduction if your standard deduction is more
than the total of your allowable itemized
deductions.
Persons not eligible for the standard deduction. Y our standard deduction is zero and
you should itemize any deductions you have if:
• Y our filing status is married filing separately, and your spouse itemizes deductions on their return;
• Y ou are filing a tax return for a short tax
year because of a change in your annual
accounting period; or
• Y ou are a nonresident or dual-status alien
during the year. Y ou are considered a
dual-status alien if you were both a nonresident and resident alien during the year.
If you are a nonresident alien who is married
to a U.S. citizen or resident alien at the end of
the year, you can choose to be treated as a U.S.
resident. (See Pub. 519.) If you make this
choice, you can take the standard deduction.
If you can be claimed as a dependent
on another person’s return (such as
your parents’ return), your standard deduction may be limited. See Standard Deduction for Dependents, later.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
501 Dependents, Standard Deduction,
and Filing Information
502 Medical and Dental Expenses
TIP
CAUTION
!
  501
  502
526 Charitable Contributions
530 T ax Information for Homeowners
547 Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts
550 Investment Income and Expenses
936 Home Mortgage Interest Deduction
970 T ax Benefits for Education
Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Standard Deduction
Amount
The standard deduction amount depends on
your filing status, whether you are 65 or older or
blind, and whether another taxpayer can claim
you as a dependent. Generally, the standard
deduction amounts are adjusted each year for
inflation. The standard deduction amounts for
most people are shown in T able 10-1.
Decedent's final return. The standard deduction for a decedent's final tax return is the same
as it would have been had the decedent continued to live. However, if the decedent wasn't 65
or older at the time of death, the higher standard deduction for age can't be claimed.
Higher Standard
Deduction for Age (65 or
Older)
If you are age 65 or older on the last day of the
year and don't itemize deductions, you are entitled to a higher standard deduction. Y ou are
considered 65 on the day before your 65th birthday. Therefore, you can take a higher standard
deduction for 2025 if you were born before January 2, 1961.
Use T able 10-2 to figure the standard deduction amount.
  526
  530
  547
  550
  936
  970
  Schedule A (Form 1040)
Page 94 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
92 Chapter 10 Standard Deduction Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 95]
Death of a taxpayer. If you are preparing a return for someone who died in 2025, read this
before using T able 10-2 or T able 10-3. Consider
the taxpayer to be 65 or older at the end of 2025
only if they were 65 or older at the time of death.
Even if the taxpayer was born before January 2,
1961, they are not considered 65 or older at the
end of 2025 unless they were 65 or older at the
time of death.
A person is considered to reach age 65 on
the day before their 65th birthday.
Higher Standard
Deduction for Blindness
If you are blind on the last day of the year and
you don't itemize deductions, you are entitled to
a higher standard deduction.
Not totally blind. If you aren't totally blind, you
must get a certified statement from an eye doctor (ophthalmologist or optometrist) that:
• Y ou can't see better than 20/200 in the better eye with glasses or contact lenses, or
• Y our field of vision is 20 degrees or less.
If your eye condition isn't likely to improve
beyond these limits, the statement should include this fact. Keep the statement in your records.
If your vision can be corrected beyond these
limits only by contact lenses that you can wear
only briefly because of pain, infection, or ulcers,
you can take the higher standard deduction for
blindness if you otherwise qualify.
Spouse 65 or Older or
Blind
Y ou can take the higher standard deduction if
your spouse is age 65 or older or blind and:
• Y ou file a joint return, or
• Y ou file a separate return and your spouse
had no gross income and can't be claimed
as a dependent by another taxpayer.
Death of a spouse.  If your spouse died in
2025 before reaching age 65, you can't take a
higher standard deduction because of your
spouse. Even if your spouse was born before
January 2, 1961, your spouse isn't considered
65 or older at the end of 2025 unless your
spouse was 65 or older at the time of death.
A person is considered to reach age 65 on
the day before their 65th birthday.
Example. Y our spouse was born on February 14, 1960, and died on February 13, 2025.
Y our spouse is considered age 65 at the time of
death. However, if your spouse died on February 12, 2025, your spouse isn't considered age
65 at the time of death and isn't 65 or older at
the end of 2025.
Y ou can't claim the higher standard deduction for an individual other than
yourself and your spouse.
CAUTION
!
Higher Standard
Deduction for Net Disaster
Loss
Y our standard deduction may be increased by
any net qualified disaster loss.
See the Instructions for Form 1040 and the
Instructions for Schedule A (Form 1040) for
more information on how to figure your increased standard deduction and how to report it
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Examples
The following examples illustrate how to determine your standard deduction using T ables
10-1 and 10-2.
Example 1.  A married couple, 46 and 33
years old, are filing a joint return for 2025. Neither is blind, and neither can be claimed as a
dependent. They decide not to itemize their deductions. They use T able 10-1. Their standard
deduction is $31,500.
Example 2.  The facts are the same as in
Example 1 , except that one of the spouses is
blind at the end of 2025. They use T able 10-2.
Their standard deduction is $33,100.
Example 3. A married couple is filing a joint
return for 2025. Both are over age 65. Neither is
blind, and neither can be claimed as a dependent. If they don't itemize deductions, they use
T able 10 -2. Their standard deduction is
$34,700.
Standard Deduction for
Dependents
The standard deduction for an individual who
can be claimed as a dependent on another person's tax return is generally limited to the
greater of:
• $1,350, or
• The individual's earned income for the year
plus $450 (but not more than the regular
standard deduction amount, generally
$15,750).
However, if the individual is 65 or older or
blind, the standard deduction may be higher.
If you (or your spouse, if filing jointly) can be
claimed as a dependent on someone else's return, use T able 10-3 to determine your standard
deduction.
Earned income defined.  Earned income is
salaries, wages, tips, professional fees, and
other amounts received as pay for work you actually perform.
For purposes of the standard deduction,
earned income also includes any part of a taxable scholarship or fellowship grant. See chapter 1 of Pub. 970 for more information on what
qualifies as a scholarship or fellowship grant.
Example 1.  Y ou are 16 years old and single. Y our parents can claim you as a dependent
on their 2025 tax return. Y ou have interest income of $780 and wages of $150. Y ou have no
itemized deductions and use T able 10-3 to find
your standard deduction. Y ou enter $150
(earned income) on line 1, $600 ($150 + $450)
on line 3, $1,350 (the larger of $600 and
$1,350) on line 5, and $15,750 on line 6. Y our
standard deduction, on line 7a, is $1,350 (the
smaller of $1,350 and $15,750).
Example 2.  Y ou are a 22 -year-old college
student and can be claimed as a dependent on
your parents' 2025 tax return. Y ou are married
filing a separate return. Y our spouse doesn't
itemize deductions. Y ou have $1,500 in interest
income and wages of $3,800 and no itemized
deductions. Y ou find your standard deduction
by using T able 10-3. Y ou enter earned income,
$3,800, on line 1. Y ou add lines 1 and 2 and enter $4,250 ($3,800 + $450) on line 3. On line 5,
you enter $4,250, the larger of lines 3 and 4.
Because you are married filing a separate return, you enter $15,750 on line 6. On line 7a,
you enter $4,250 as the standard deduction
amount because it is smaller than $15,750, the
amount on line 6.
Example 3.  Y ou are single and can be
claimed as a dependent on your parents' 2025
tax return. Y ou are 18 years old and blind and
have interest income of $1,300, wages of
$2,900, and no itemized deductions. Y ou use
T able 10 -3 to find the standard deduction
amount. Y ou enter wages of $2,900 on line 1,
and add lines 1 and 2 and enter $3,350 ($2,900
+ $450) on line 3. On line 5, you enter $3,350,
the larger of lines 3 and 4. Because you are single, you enter $15,750 on line 6 and $3,350 on
line 7a. This is the smaller of the amounts on
lines 5 and 6. Because you checked one box in
the top part of the worksheet, you enter $2,000
on line 7b, then add the amounts on lines 7a
and 7b and enter the standard deduction
amount of $5,350 ($3,350 + $2,000) on line 7c.
Example 4. Y ou are 18 years old and single
and can be claimed as a dependent on your parents’ 2025 tax return. Y ou have wages of
$7,000, interest income of $500, a business
loss of $3,000, and no itemized deductions. Y ou
use T able 10-3 to figure the standard deduction
amount. Y ou enter $4,000 ($7,000 − $3,000) on
line 1, and add lines 1 and 2 and enter $4,450
($4,000 + $450) on line 3. On line 5, you enter
$4,450, the larger of lines 3 and 4, and, because you are single, $15,750 on line 6. On
line 7a, you enter $4,450 as the standard deduction amount because it is smaller than
$15,750, the amount on line 6.
Who Should Itemize
Y ou should itemize deductions if your total deductions are more than your standard deduction
amount. Also, you should itemize if you don't
qualify for the standard deduction, as discussed
earlier under Persons not eligible for the standard deduction.
Y ou should first figure your itemized deductions and compare that amount to your standard
deduction to make sure you are using the
method that gives you the greater benefit.
Page 95 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 10 Standard Deduction 93

[PAGE 96]
When to itemize.  Y ou may benefit from
itemizing your deductions on Schedule A (Form
1040) if you:
• Don't qualify for the standard deduction,
• Had large uninsured medical and dental
expenses during the year,
• Paid interest and taxes on your home,
• Had large uninsured casualty or theft losses,
• Made large contributions to qualified charities, or
• Have total itemized deductions that are
more than the standard deduction to which
you are otherwise entitled.
These deductions are explained in chapter 11
and in the publications listed under Useful
Items, earlier.
If you decide to itemize your deductions,
complete Schedule A (Form 1040) and attach it
to your Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. Enter the
amount from Schedule A (Form 1040), line 17,
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 12e.
Electing to itemize for state tax or other
purposes. Even if your itemized deductions
are less than your standard deduction, you can
elect to itemize deductions on your federal return rather than taking the standard deduction.
Y ou may want to do this if, for example, the tax
benefit of itemizing your deductions on your
state tax return is greater than the tax benefit
you lose on your federal return by not taking the
standard deduction. T o make this election, you
must check the box on line 18 of Schedule A
(Form 1040).
Changing your mind. If you don't itemize your
deductions and later find that you should have
itemized—or if you itemize your deductions and
later find you shouldn't have —you can change
your return by filing Form 1040 -X, Amended
U.S. Individual Income T ax Return. See Amended Returns and Claims for Refund in chapter 1
for more information on amended returns.
Married persons who filed separate returns. Y ou can change methods of taking deductions only if you and your spouse both make
the same changes. Both of you must file a consent to assessment for any additional tax either
one may owe as a result of the change.
Y ou and your spouse can use the method
that gives you the lower total tax, even though
one of you may pay more tax than you would
have paid by using the other method. Y ou both
must use the same method of claiming deductions. If one itemizes deductions, the other
should itemize because they won't qualify for
the standard deduction. See Persons not eligible for the standard deduction, earlier.
Page 96 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
94 Chapter 10 Standard Deduction Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 97]
2025 Standard Deduction Tables
CAUTION
!
If you are married filing a separate return and your spouse itemizes deductions, or if you are a dual-status alien, you can't take the standard deduction
even if you were born before January 2, 1961, or are blind.
Standard Deduction Chart for Most People*Table 10-1.
IF your filing status is... THEN your standard deduction is...
Single or Married filing separately $15,750
Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse  31,500
Head of household  23,625
* Don't use this chart if you were born before January 2, 1961, are blind, or if someone else can claim you (or your spouse, if filing jointly) as a dependent. Use T able 10-2 or
10-3 instead.
Standard Deduction Chart for People Born Before January 2, 1961, or Who Are Blind*Table 10-2.
Check the correct number of boxes below. Then go to the chart.
You: Born before January 2, 1961
 Blind
Your spouse: Born before January 2, 1961
 Blind
Total number of boxes checked
IF
your filing status is...
AND
the number in the box above is...
THEN
your standard deduction is...
Single 1 $17,750
2  19,750
Married filing jointly 1 $33,100
2   34,700
3   36,300
4   37,900
Qualifying surviving spouse 1 $33,100
2  34,700
Married filing 1 $17,350
separately** 2  18,950
3   20,550
4   22,150
Head of household 1 $25,625
2   27,625
* If someone else can claim you (or your spouse, if filing jointly) as a dependent, use T able 10-3 instead.
** Y ou can check the boxes for Y our Spouse if your filing status is married filing separately and your spouse had no income, isn’t filing a return, and can’t be claimed as a
dependent on another person’s return.
Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents
Use this worksheet only if someone else can claim you (or your spouse, if filing jointly) as a dependent.
Table 10-3.
Check the correct number of boxes below. Then go to the worksheet.
You: Born before January 2, 1961
 Blind
Your spouse: Born before January 2, 1961
 Blind
Total number of boxes checked
1. Enter your earned income (defined below). If none, enter -0-. 1.
2. Additional amount. 2. $450
3. Add lines 1 and 2. 3.
4. Minimum standard deduction. 4. $1,350
5. Enter the larger of line 3 or line 4. 5.
6. Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
• Single or Married filing separately—$15,750
• Married filing jointly—$31,500
• Head of household—$23,625
6.
7. Standard deduction.
a. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 6. If born after January 1, 1961, and not blind, stop here. This is your
standard deduction. Otherwise, go on to line 7b. 7a.
b. If born before January 2, 1961, or blind, multiply $2,000 ($1,600 if married) by the number in the box above. 7b.
c. Add lines 7a and 7b. This is your standard deduction for 2025. 7c.
Earned income includes wages, salaries, tips, professional fees, and other compensation received for personal services you performed. It also includes any
taxable scholarship or fellowship grant.
Page 97 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 10 Standard Deduction 95

[PAGE 98]
11.
Taxes
What’s New
State and local tax deduction limit increased. The overall limit on the deduction for
state and local income, sales, and property
taxes has increased to $40,000 ($20,000 if married filing separately). See Limitation on deduction for state and local taxes, later.
Reminder
No deduction for foreign taxes paid for real
estate.  Y ou can no longer deduct foreign taxes
you paid on real estate.
Introduction
This chapter discusses which taxes you can deduct if you itemize deductions on Schedule A
(Form 1040). It also explains which taxes you
can deduct on other schedules or forms and
which taxes you can’t deduct.
This chapter covers the following topics.
• Income taxes (federal, state, local, and foreign).
• General sales taxes (state and local).
• Real estate taxes (state, local, and foreign).
• Personal property taxes (state and local).
• T axes and fees you can’t deduct.
Use T able 11-1 as a guide to determine
which taxes you can deduct.
The end of the chapter contains a section
that explains which forms you use to deduct different types of taxes.
Business taxes. Y ou can deduct certain taxes
only if they are ordinary and necessary expenses of your trade or business or of producing income. For information on these taxes, see
chapter 8, Business Expenses in Pub. 334.
State or local taxes. These are taxes imposed
by the 50 states, U.S. territories, or any of their
political subdivisions (such as a county or city),
or by the District of Columbia.
Indian tribal government.  An Indian tribal
government recognized by the Secretary of the
T reasury as performing substantial government
functions will be treated as a state for purposes
of claiming a deduction for taxes. Income taxes,
real estate taxes, and personal property taxes
imposed by that Indian tribal government (or by
any of its subdivisions that are treated as political subdivisions of a state) are deductible.
General sales taxes.  These are taxes imposed at one rate on retail sales of a broad
range of classes of items.
Foreign taxes. These are taxes imposed by a
foreign country or any of its political subdivisions.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
502 Medical and Dental Expenses
503 Child and Dependent Care Expenses
504 Divorced or Separated Individuals
514 Foreign T ax Credit for Individuals
525 T axable and Nontaxable Income
530 T ax Information for Homeowners
Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
Schedule C (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Business (Sole Proprietorship)
Schedule E (Form 1040) Supplemental
Income and Loss
Schedule F (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Farming
Schedule SE (Form 1040)
Self-Employment T ax
1116 Foreign T ax Credit
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
Tests To Deduct Any
Tax
The following two tests must be met for you to
deduct any tax.
• The tax must be imposed on you.
• Y ou must pay the tax during your tax year.
The tax must be imposed on you.  In general, you can deduct only taxes imposed on
you.
Generally, you can deduct property taxes
only if you are an owner of the property. If your
spouse owns the property and pays the real estate taxes, the taxes are deductible on your
spouse's separate return or on your joint return.
You must pay the tax during your tax year.
If you are a cash -basis taxpayer, you can deduct only those taxes you actually paid during
your tax year. If you pay your taxes by check
and the check is honored by your financial institution, the day you mail or deliver the check is
the date of payment. If you use a pay -by-phone
account (such as a credit card or electronic
funds withdrawal), the date reported on the
statement of the financial institution showing
when payment was made is the date of payment. If you contest a tax liability and are a
cash-basis taxpayer, you can deduct the tax
only in the year you actually pay it (or transfer
money or other property to provide for satisfac-
  502
  503
  504
  514
  525
  530
  Schedule A (Form 1040)
  Schedule C (Form 1040)
  Schedule E (Form 1040)
  Schedule F (Form 1040)
  Schedule SE (Form 1040)
  1116
tion of the contested liability). See Pub. 538 for
details.
If you use an accrual method of accounting,
see Pub. 538 for more information.
Income Taxes
This section discusses the deductibility of state
and local income taxes (including employee
contributions to state benefit funds) and foreign
income taxes.
State and Local Income
Taxes
Y ou can deduct state and local income taxes.
Exception. Y ou can’t deduct state and local income taxes you pay on income that is exempt
from federal income tax, unless the exempt income is interest income. For example, you can’t
deduct the part of a state's income tax that is on
a cost -of-living allowance exempt from federal
income tax.
What To Deduct
Y our deduction may be for withheld taxes, estimated tax payments, or other tax payments as
follows.
Withheld taxes. Y ou can deduct state and local income taxes withheld from your salary in
the year they are withheld. Y our Form(s) W -2
will show these amounts. Forms W-2G, 1099-B,
1099-DIV , 1099 -G, 1099 -K, 1099 -MISC,
1099-NEC, 1099 -OID, and 1099 -R may also
show state and local income taxes withheld.
Estimated tax payments. Y ou can deduct estimated tax payments you made during the year
to a state or local government. However, you
must have a reasonable basis for making the
estimated tax payments. Any estimated state or
local tax payments that aren’t made in good
faith at the time of payment aren’t deductible.
Example. Y ou made an estimated state income tax payment. However, the estimate of
your state tax liability shows that you will get a
refund of the full amount of your estimated payment. Y ou had no reasonable basis to believe
you had any additional liability for state income
taxes and you can’t deduct the estimated tax
payment.
Refund applied to taxes. Y ou can deduct any
part of a refund of prior -year state or local income taxes that you chose to have credited to
your 2025 estimated state or local income
taxes.
Don’t reduce your deduction by either of the
following items.
• Any state or local income tax refund (or
credit) you expect to receive for 2025.
• Any refund of (or credit for) prior-year state
and local income taxes you actually received in 2025.
However, part or all of this refund (or credit)
may be taxable. See Refund (or credit) of state
or local income taxes, later.
Separate federal returns.  If you and your
spouse file separate state, local, and federal
Page 98 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
96 Chapter 11 Taxes Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 99]
income tax returns, each of you can deduct on
your federal return only the amount of your own
state and local income tax that you paid during
the tax year.
Joint state and local returns.  If you and
your spouse file joint state and local returns and
separate federal returns, each of you can deduct on your separate federal return a part of
the state and local income taxes paid during the
tax year. Y ou can deduct only the amount of the
total taxes that is proportionate to your gross income compared to the combined gross income
of you and your spouse. However, you can’t deduct more than the amount you actually paid
during the year. Y ou can avoid this calculation if
you and your spouse are jointly and individually
liable for the full amount of the state and local
income taxes. If so, you and your spouse can
deduct on your separate federal returns the
amount you each actually paid.
Joint federal return.  If you file a joint federal
return, you can deduct the state and local income taxes both of you paid.
Contributions to state benefit funds.  As an
employee, you can deduct mandatory contributions to state benefit funds withheld from your
wages that provide protection against loss of
wages. For example, certain states require employees to make contributions to state funds
providing disability or unemployment insurance
benefits. Mandatory payments made to the following state benefit funds are deductible as
state income taxes on Schedule A (Form 1040),
line 5a.
• Alaska Unemployment Compensation
Fund.
• California Nonoccupational Disability Benefit Fund.
• New Jersey Nonoccupational Disability
Benefit Fund.
• New Jersey Unemployment Compensation
Fund.
• New Y ork Nonoccupational Disability Benefit Fund.
• Pennsylvania Unemployment Compensation Fund.
• Rhode Island T emporary Disability Benefit
Fund.
• Washington State Supplemental Workmen's Compensation Fund.
Employee contributions to private or
voluntary disability plans aren’t deductible.
Refund (or credit) of state or local income
taxes. If you receive a refund of (or credit for)
state or local income taxes in a year after the
year in which you paid them, you may have to
include the refund in income on Schedule 1
(Form 1040), line 1, in the year you receive it.
This includes refunds resulting from taxes that
were overwithheld, applied from a prior -year return, not figured correctly, or figured again because of an amended return. If you didn’t itemize your deductions in the previous year, don’t
include the refund in income. If you deducted
the taxes in the previous year, include all or part
of the refund on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 1,
in the year you receive the refund. For a discusCAUTION
!
sion of how much to include, see Recoveries in
Pub. 525 for more information.
Foreign Income Taxes
Generally, you can take either a deduction or a
credit for income taxes imposed on you by a foreign country or a U.S. territory. However, you
can’t take a deduction or credit for foreign income taxes paid on income that is exempt from
U.S. tax under the foreign earned income exclusion or the foreign housing exclusion. For information on these exclusions, see Pub. 54, T ax
Guide for U.S. Citizens and Resident Aliens
Abroad. For information on the foreign tax
credit, see Pub. 514.
State and Local
General Sales Taxes
Y ou can elect to deduct state and local general
sales taxes, instead of state and local income
taxes, as an itemized deduction on Schedule A
(Form 1040), line 5a. Y ou can use either your
actual expenses or the state and local sales tax
tables to figure your sales tax deduction.
Actual expenses.  Generally, you can deduct
the actual state and local general sales taxes
(including compensating use taxes) if the tax
rate was the same as the general sales tax rate.
Food, clothing, and medical supplies.
Sales taxes on food, clothing, and medical supplies are deductible as a general sales tax even
if the tax rate was less than the general sales
tax rate.
Motor vehicles. Sales taxes on motor vehicles are deductible as a general sales tax even
if the tax rate was less than the general sales
tax rate. However, if you paid sales tax on a motor vehicle at a rate higher than the general
sales tax, you can deduct only the amount of
the tax that you would have paid at the general
sales tax rate on that vehicle. Include any state
and local general sales taxes paid for a leased
motor vehicle. For purposes of this section, motor vehicles include cars, motorcycles, motor
homes, recreational vehicles, sport utility vehicles, trucks, vans, and off-road vehicles.
Trade or business items.  Don't include
sales taxes paid on items used in your trade or
business on Schedule A (Form 1040). Instead,
go to the instructions for the form you are using
to report business income and expenses to see
if you can deduct these taxes.
If you use the actual expenses method,
you must have receipts to show the
general sales taxes paid.
Optional sales tax tables.  Instead of using
your actual expenses, you can figure your state
and local general sales tax deduction using the
state and local sales tax tables in the Instructions for Schedule A (Form 1040). Y ou may also
be able to add the state and local general sales
taxes paid on certain specified items.
Y our applicable table amount is based on
the state where you live, your income, and your
family size. Y our income is your adjusted gross
CAUTION
!
income plus any nontaxable items such as the
following.
• T ax-exempt interest.
• Veterans’ benefits.
• Nontaxable combat pay.
• Workers’ compensation.
• Nontaxable part of social security and railroad retirement benefits.
• Nontaxable part of IRA, pension, or annuity
distributions, excluding rollovers.
• Public assistance payments.
If you lived in different states during the
same tax year, you must prorate your applicable
table amount for each state based on the days
you lived in each state. See the instructions for
Schedule A (Form 1040), line 5a, for details.
State and Local Real
Estate Taxes
Deductible real estate taxes are any state and
local taxes on real property levied for the general public welfare. Y ou can deduct these taxes
only if they are assessed uniformly against all
property under the jurisdiction of the taxing authority. The proceeds must be for general community or governmental purposes and not be a
payment for a special privilege granted or service rendered to you.
Deductible real estate taxes generally don’t
include taxes charged for local benefits and improvements that increase the value of the property. They also don’t include itemized charges
for services (such as trash collection) assessed
against specific property or certain people, even
if the charge is paid to the taxing authority. For
more information about taxes and charges that
aren’t deductible, see Real Estate -Related
Items Y ou Can’t Deduct, later.
Tenant-shareholders in a cooperative housing corporation.  Generally, if you are a tenant-stockholder in a cooperative housing corporation, you can deduct the amount paid to the
corporation that represents your share of the
real estate taxes the corporation paid or incurred for your dwelling unit. The corporation
should provide you with a statement showing
your share of the taxes. For more information,
see Special Rules for Cooperatives in Pub. 530.
Division of real estate taxes between buyers and sellers.  If you bought or sold real estate during the year, the real estate taxes must
be divided between the buyer and the seller.
The buyer and the seller must divide the real
estate taxes according to the number of days in
the real property tax year (the period to which
the tax is imposed relates) that each owned the
property. The seller is treated as paying the
taxes up to, but not including, the date of sale.
The buyer is treated as paying the taxes beginning with the date of sale. This applies regardless of the lien dates under local law. Generally,
this information is included on the settlement
statement provided at the closing.
If you (the seller) can’t deduct taxes until
they are paid because you use the cash method
of accounting, and the buyer of your property is
personally liable for the tax, you are considered
Page 99 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 11 Taxes 97

[PAGE 100]
to have paid your part of the tax at the time of
the sale. This lets you deduct the part of the tax
to the date of sale even though you didn’t actually pay it. However, you must also include the
amount of that tax in the selling price of the
property. The buyer must include the same
amount in the cost of the property.
Y ou figure your deduction for taxes on each
property bought or sold during the real property
tax year as follows.
Worksheet 11-1. Figuring
Your State and Local Real
Estate Tax Deduction
Keep for Y our Records
1. Enter the total state and local real estate
taxes for the real property tax
year ....................
2. Enter the number of days in the real
property tax year that you owned the
property .................
3. Divide line 2 by 365 (for leap years,
divide line 2 by 366) ........... .    
4. Multiply line 1 by line 3. This is your
deduction. Enter it on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 5b ..............
Note: Repeat steps 1 through 4 for each property you bought
or sold during the real property tax year. Y our total deduction is
the sum of the line 4 amounts for all of the properties.
Real estate taxes for prior years. Don’t divide delinquent taxes between the buyer and
seller if the taxes are for any real property tax
year before the one in which the property is
sold. Even if the buyer agrees to pay the delinquent taxes, the buyer can’t deduct them. The
buyer must add them to the cost of the property.
The seller can deduct these taxes paid by the
buyer. However, the seller must include them in
the selling price.
Examples. The following examples illustrate
how real estate taxes are divided between
buyer and seller.
Example 1.  Porter and Riley White's real
property tax year for both their old home and
their new home is the calendar year, with payment due August 1. The tax on their old home,
sold on May 7, was $620. The tax on their new
home, bought on May 3, was $732. Porter and
Riley are considered to have paid a proportionate share of the real estate taxes on the old
home even though they didn’t actually pay them
to the taxing authority. On the other hand, they
can claim only a proportionate share of the
taxes they paid on their new property even
though they paid the entire amount.
Porter and Riley owned their old home during the real property tax year for 126 days (January 1 to May 6, the day before the sale). They
figure their deduction for taxes on their old
home as follows.
Worksheet 11-1. Figuring Your
State and Local Real Estate Tax
Deduction—Taxes on Old Home
1. Enter the total state and local real estate
taxes for the real property tax year ... $620
2. Enter the number of days in the real
property tax year that you owned the
property ................ 126
3. Divide line 2 by 365 (for leap years,
divide line 2 by 366) .......... 0.3452
4. Multiply line 1 by line 3. This is your
deduction. Enter it on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 5b ............. $214
Because the buyers of their old home paid all of
the taxes, Porter and Riley also include the
$214 in the selling price of the old home. (The
buyers add the $214 to their cost of the home.)
Porter and Riley owned their new home during the real property tax year for 243 days (May
3 to December 31, including their date of purchase). They figure their deduction for taxes on
their new home as follows.
Worksheet 11-1. Figuring Your
State and Local Real Estate Tax
Deduction—Taxes on New Home
1. Enter the total state and local real estate
taxes for the real property tax year ... $732
2. Enter the number of days in the real
property tax year that you owned the
property ................ 243
3. Divide line 2 by 365 (for leap years,
divide line 2 by 366) .......... 0.6658
4. Multiply line 1 by line 3. This is your
deduction. Enter it on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 5b ............. $487
Because Porter and Riley paid all of the taxes
on the new home, they add $245 ($732 paid
less $487 deduction) to their cost of the new
home. (The sellers add this $245 to their selling
price and deduct the $245 as a real estate tax.)
Porter and Riley's real estate tax deduction
for their old and new homes is the sum of $214
and $487, or $701. They will enter this amount
on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 5b.
Example 2. Reese and Quin Brown bought
a new home on May 3, 2025. Their real property
tax year for the new home is the calendar year.
Real estate taxes for 2024 were assessed in
their state on January 1, 2025. The taxes became due on May 31, 2025, and October 31,
2025.
The Browns agreed to pay all taxes due after
the date of purchase. Real estate taxes for 2024
were $680. They paid $340 on May 31, 2025,
and $340 on October 31, 2025. These taxes
were for the 2024 real property tax year. The
Browns can’t deduct them because they didn’t
own the property until 2025. Instead, they must
add $680 to the cost of their new home.
In January 2026, the Browns receive their
2025 property tax statement for $752, which
they will pay in 2026. The Browns owned their
new home during the 2025 real property tax
year for 243 days (May 3 to December 31).
They will figure their 2026 deduction for taxes
as follows.
Worksheet 11-1. Figuring Your
State and Local Real Estate Tax
Deduction—Taxes on New Home
1. Enter the total state and local real estate
taxes for the real property tax year ... $752
2. Enter the number of days in the real
property tax year that you owned the
property ................ 243
3. Divide line 2 by 365 (for leap years,
divide line 2 by 366) .......... 0.6658
4. Multiply line 1 by line 3. This is your
deduction. Claim it on Schedule A
(Form 1040), line 5b .......... $501
The remaining $251 ($752 paid less $501 deduction) of taxes paid in 2026, along with the
$680 paid in 2025, is added to the cost of their
new home.
Because the taxes up to the date of sale are
considered paid by the seller on the date of
sale, the seller is entitled to a 2025 tax deduction of $931. This is the sum of the $680 for
2024 and the $251 for the 122 days the seller
owned the home in 2025. The seller must also
include the $931 in the selling price when they
figure the gain or loss on the sale. The seller
should contact the Browns in January 2026 to
find out how much real estate tax is due for
2025.
Form 1099 -S. For certain sales or exchanges of real estate, the person responsible
for closing the sale (generally, the settlement
agent) prepares Form 1099 -S, Proceeds From
Real Estate T ransactions, to report certain information to the IRS and to the seller of the property. Box 2 of Form 1099 -S is for the gross proceeds from the sale and should include the
portion of the seller's real estate tax liability that
the buyer will pay after the date of sale. The
buyer includes these taxes in the cost basis of
the property, and the seller both deducts this
amount as a tax paid and includes it in the sales
price of the property.
For a real estate transaction that involves a
home, any real estate tax the seller paid in advance but that is the liability of the buyer appears in box 6 of Form 1099 -S. The buyer deducts this amount as a real estate tax, and the
seller reduces their real estate tax deduction (or
includes it in income) by the same amount. See
Refund (or rebate), later.
Taxes placed in escrow. If your monthly mortgage payment includes an amount placed in escrow (put in the care of a third party) for real estate taxes, you may not be able to deduct the
total amount placed in escrow. Y ou can deduct
only the real estate tax that the third party actually paid to the taxing authority. If the third
party doesn’t notify you of the amount of real
estate tax that was paid for you, contact the
third party or the taxing authority to find the
proper amount to show on your return.
Tenants by the entirety.  If you and your
spouse held property as tenants by the entirety
and you file separate federal returns, each of
you can deduct only the taxes each of you paid
on the property.
Divorced individuals. If your divorce or separation agreement states that you must pay the
real estate taxes for a home owned by you and
Page 100 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
98 Chapter 11 Taxes Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 101]
your spouse, part of your payments may be deductible as alimony and part as real estate
taxes. See Payments to a third party in Pub. 504
for more information.
Ministers’ and military housing allowances.
If you are a minister or a member of the uniformed services and receive a housing allowance that you can exclude from income, you
can still deduct all of the real estate taxes you
pay on your home.
Refund (or rebate). If you received a refund or
rebate in 2025 of real estate taxes you paid in
2025, you must reduce your deduction by the
amount refunded to you. If you received a refund or rebate in 2025 of real estate taxes you
deducted in an earlier year, you must generally
include the refund or rebate in income in the
year you receive it. However, the amount you include in income is limited to the amount of the
deduction that reduced your tax in the earlier
year. For more information, see Recoveries in
Pub. 525.
Real Estate-Related Items
You Can’t Deduct
Payments for the following items generally
aren’t deductible as real estate taxes.
• T axes for local benefits.
• Itemized charges for services (such as
trash and garbage pickup fees).
• T ransfer taxes (or stamp taxes).
• Rent increases due to higher real estate
taxes.
• Homeowners' association charges.
Taxes for local benefits.  Deductible real estate taxes generally don’t include taxes charged
for local benefits and improvements tending to
increase the value of your property. These include assessments for streets, sidewalks, water
mains, sewer lines, public parking facilities, and
similar improvements. Y ou should increase the
basis of your property by the amount of the assessment.
Local benefit taxes are deductible only if
they are for maintenance, repair, or interest
charges related to those benefits. If only a part
of the taxes is for maintenance, repair, or
interest, you must be able to show the amount
of that part to claim the deduction. If you can’t
determine what part of the tax is for maintenance, repair, or interest, none of it is deductible.
T axes for local benefits may be included in your real estate tax bill. If your
taxing authority (or mortgage lender)
doesn’t furnish you a copy of your real estate
tax bill, ask for it. Y ou should use the rules
above to determine if the local benefit tax is deductible. Contact the taxing authority if you
need additional information about a specific
charge on your real estate tax bill.
Itemized charges for services.  An itemized
charge for services assessed against specific
property or certain people isn’t a tax, even if the
charge is paid to the taxing authority. For example, you can’t deduct the charge as a real estate
tax if it is:
• A unit fee for the delivery of a service (such
as a $5 fee charged for every 1,000 gallons
of water you use),
• A periodic charge for a residential service
(such as a $20 per month or $240 annual
fee charged to each homeowner for trash
collection), or
CAUTION
!
T able 11-1.  Which Taxes Can You Deduct?
Type of tax You can deduct You can’t deduct
Fees and charges Fees and charges that are expenses of your trade or
business or of producing income.
Fees and charges that aren’t expenses of your trade or
business or of producing income, such as fees for
driver's licenses, car inspections, parking, or
charges for water bills (see T axes and Fees Y ou
Can’t Deduct).
Fines and penalties.
Income taxes State and local income taxes. Federal income taxes.
Foreign income taxes. Employee contributions to private or voluntary
disability plans.
Employee contributions to state funds listed under
Contributions to state benefit funds.
State and local general sales taxes if you choose to
deduct state and local income taxes.
General sales taxes State and local general sales taxes, including
compensating use taxes.
State and local income taxes if you choose to deduct
state and local general sales taxes.
Other taxes T axes that are expenses of your trade or business. Federal excise taxes, such as tax on gasoline, that
aren’t expenses of your trade or business or of
producing income.
T axes on property producing rent or royalty income. Per capita taxes.
One-half of self-employment tax paid.
Personal property
taxes
State and local personal property taxes. Customs duties that aren’t expenses of your trade or
business or of producing income.
Real estate taxes State and local real estate taxes. Real estate taxes that are treated as imposed on
someone else (see Division of real estate taxes
between buyers and sellers).
T enant's share of real estate taxes paid by a
cooperative housing corporation.
Foreign real estate taxes.
T axes for local benefits (with exceptions). See Real
Estate-Related Items Y ou Can’t Deduct.
T rash and garbage pickup fees (with exceptions). See
Real Estate-Related Items Y ou Can’t Deduct.
Rent increase due to higher real estate taxes.
Homeowners' association charges.
Page 101 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 11 Taxes 99

[PAGE 102]
• A flat fee charged for a single service provided by your government (such as a $30
charge for mowing your lawn because it
was allowed to grow higher than permitted
under your local ordinance).
Y ou must look at your real estate tax bill
to determine if any nondeductible itemized charges, such as those listed
above, are included in the bill. If your taxing authority (or mortgage lender) doesn’t furnish you
a copy of your real estate tax bill, ask for it.
Exception. Service charges used to maintain or improve services (such as trash collection or police and fire protection) are deductible
as real estate taxes if:
• The fees or charges are imposed at a like
rate against all property in the taxing jurisdiction;
• The funds collected aren’t earmarked; instead, they are commingled with general
revenue funds; and
• Funds used to maintain or improve services aren’t limited to or determined by the
amount of these fees or charges collected.
Transfer taxes (or stamp taxes).  T ransfer
taxes and similar taxes and charges on the sale
of a personal home aren’t deductible. If they are
paid by the seller, they are expenses of the sale
and reduce the amount realized on the sale. If
paid by the buyer, they are included in the cost
basis of the property.
Rent increase due to higher real estate
taxes. If your landlord increases your rent in
the form of a tax surcharge because of increased real estate taxes, you can’t deduct the
increase as taxes.
Homeowners' association charges.  These
charges aren’t deductible because they are imposed by the homeowners' association, rather
than the state or local government.
Personal Property
Taxes
Personal property tax is deductible if it is a state
or local tax that is:
• Charged on personal property;
• Based only on the value of the personal
property; and
• Charged on a yearly basis, even if it is collected more or less than once a year.
A tax that meets the above requirements
can be considered charged on personal property even if it is for the exercise of a privilege.
For example, a yearly tax based on value qualifies as a personal property tax even if it is called
a registration fee and is for the privilege of registering motor vehicles or using them on the highways.
If the tax is partly based on value and partly
based on other criteria, it may qualify in part.
Example. Y our state charges a yearly motor
vehicle registration tax of 1% of value plus 50
cents per hundredweight. Y ou paid $32 based
on the value ($1,500) and weight (3,400 lbs.) of
CAUTION
!
your car. Y ou can deduct $15 (1% × $1,500) as
a personal property tax because it is based on
the value. The remaining $17 ($0.50 × 34),
based on the weight, isn’t deductible.
Taxes and Fees You
Can’t Deduct
Many federal, state, and local government taxes
aren’t deductible because they don’t fall within
the categories discussed earlier. Other taxes
and fees, such as federal income taxes, aren’t
deductible because the tax law specifically prohibits a deduction for them. See T able 11-1.
T axes and fees that are generally not deductible include the following items.
• Employment taxes. This includes social
security, Medicare, and railroad retirement
taxes withheld from your pay. However,
one-half of self-employment tax you pay is
deductible. In addition, the social security
and other employment taxes you pay on
the wages of a household worker may be
included in medical expenses that you can
deduct, or childcare expenses that allow
you to claim the child and dependent care
credit. For more information, see Pub. 502
and Pub. 503.
• Estate, inheritance, legacy, or succession taxes. Y ou can deduct the estate tax
attributable to income in respect of a decedent if you, as a beneficiary, must include
that income in your gross income. In that
case, deduct the estate tax on Schedule A
(Form 1040), line 16. For more information,
see Pub. 559.
• Federal income taxes. This includes income taxes withheld from your pay.
• Fines and penalties. Y ou can’t deduct
fines and penalties paid to a government
for violation of any law, including related
amounts forfeited as collateral deposits.
• Foreign personal or real property
taxes.
• Gift taxes.
• License fees. Y ou can’t deduct license
fees for personal purposes (such as marriage, driver's, and pet license fees).
• Per capita taxes. Y ou can’t deduct state
or local per capita taxes.
Many taxes and fees other than those listed
above are also nondeductible, unless they are
ordinary and necessary expenses of a business
or income -producing activity. For other nondeductible items, see Real Estate -Related Items
Y ou Can’t Deduct, earlier.
Where To Deduct
Y ou deduct taxes on the following schedules.
State and local income taxes.  These taxes
are deducted on Schedule A (Form 1040),
line 5a, even if your only source of income is
from business, rents, or royalties.
Limitation on deduction for state and local taxes.  The deduction for state and local
taxes is limited to $40,000 ($20,000 if married
filing separately). The overall limit is reduced if
your modified adjusted gross income is more
than $500,000 ($250,000 if married filing separately) but will not be reduced below $10,000
($5,000 if married filing separately).
State and local taxes are the taxes that you
include on Schedule A (Form 1040), lines 5a,
5b, and 5c. Include taxes imposed by a U.S. territory with your state and local taxes on Schedule A (Form 1040), lines 5a, 5b, and 5c. However, don't include any U.S. territory taxes you
paid that are allocable to excluded income.
Y ou may want to take a credit for U.S.
territory tax instead of a deduction. See
the instructions for Schedule 3 (Form
1040), line 1, for details.
General sales taxes.  Sales taxes are deducted on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 5a. Y ou
must check the box on line 5a. If you elect to
deduct sales taxes, you can’t deduct state and
local income taxes on Schedule A (Form 1040),
line 5a.
Foreign income taxes.  Generally, income
taxes you pay to a foreign country or U.S. territory can be claimed as an itemized deduction
on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 6, or as a
credit against your U.S. income tax on Schedule
3 (Form 1040), line 1. T o claim the credit, you
may have to complete and attach Form 1116.
For more information, see the Instructions for
Form 1040 or Pub. 514.
Real estate taxes and personal property
taxes. Real estate and personal property taxes
are deducted on Schedule A (Form 1040), lines
5b and 5c, respectively, unless they are paid on
property used in your business, in which case
they are deducted on Schedule C (Form 1040)
or Schedule F (Form 1040). T axes on property
that produces rent or royalty income are deducted on Schedule E (Form 1040).
Self-employment tax. Deduct one-half of your
self-employment tax on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 15.
Other taxes. All other deductible taxes are deducted on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 6.
TIP
Page 102 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
100 Chapter 11 Taxes Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 103]
12.
Other Itemized
Deductions
What’s New
Standard mileage rate.  The 2025 rate for
business use of a vehicle is 70 cents a mile.
Reminders
No miscellaneous itemized deductions allowed. Y ou can no longer claim any miscellaneous itemized deductions. Miscellaneous
itemized deductions are those deductions that
would have been subject to the 2% -of-adjusted-gross-income (AGI) limitation. See Miscellaneous Itemized Deductions, later.
Fines and penalties.  Rules regarding deducting fines and penalties have changed. See
Fines and Penalties, later.
Introduction
This chapter explains that you can no longer
claim any miscellaneous itemized deductions,
unless you fall into one of the qualified categories of employment claiming a deduction relating to unreimbursed employee expenses. Miscellaneous itemized deductions are those
deductions that would have been subject to the
2%-of-AGI limitation. Y ou can still claim certain
expenses as itemized deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040) or Schedule A (Form
1040-NR), or as an adjustment to income on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR. This chapter covers the
following topics.
• Miscellaneous itemized deductions.
• Expenses you can’t deduct.
• Expenses you can deduct.
• How to report your deductions.
Y ou must keep records to verify your
deductions. Y ou should keep receipts,
canceled checks, substitute checks, financial account statements, and other documentary evidence. For more information on recordkeeping, see What Records Should I
Keep? in chapter 1.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
463 T ravel, Gift, and Car Expenses
525 T axable and Nontaxable Income
529 Miscellaneous Deductions
RECORDS
  463
  525
  529
547 Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts
575 Pension and Annuity Income
587 Business Use of Y our Home
946 How T o Depreciate Property
Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized
Deductions
2106 Employee Business Expenses
8839 Qualified Adoption Expenses
Schedule K-1 (Form 1041) Beneficiary’s
Share of Income, Deductions,
Credits, etc.
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
Miscellaneous
Itemized Deductions
Y ou can no longer claim any miscellaneous
itemized deductions that are subject to the
2%-of-AGI limitation, including unreimbursed
employee expenses. However, you may be able
to deduct certain unreimbursed employee business expenses if you fall into one of the following categories of employment listed under Unreimbursed Employee Expenses next.
Unreimbursed Employee
Expenses
Y ou can no longer claim a deduction for unreimbursed employee expenses unless you fall into
one of the following categories of employment.
• Armed Forces reservists.
• Qualified performing artists.
• Fee-basis state or local government officials.
• Employees with impairment-related work
expenses.
Categories of Employment
Y ou can deduct unreimbursed employee expenses only if you qualify as an Armed Forces reservist, a qualified performing artist, a fee -basis
state or local government official, or an employee with impairment-related work expenses.
Armed Forces reservist (member of a reserve component).  Y ou are a member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the
United States if you are in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Coast Guard Reserve;
the Army National Guard of the United States;
or the Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.
Qualified performing artist.  Y ou are a
qualified performing artist if you:
1. Performed services in the performing arts
as an employee for at least two employers
during the tax year,
2. Received from at least two of the employers wages of $200 or more per employer,
  547
  575
  587
  946
  Schedule A (Form 1040)
  2106
  8839
  Schedule K-1 (Form 1041)
3. Had allowable business expenses attributable to the performing arts of more than
10% of gross income from the performing
arts, and
4. Had AGI of $16,000 or less before deducting expenses as a performing artist.
Fee-basis state or local government official.  Y ou are a qualifying fee -basis official if
you are employed by a state or political subdivision of a state and are compensated, in whole
or in part, on a fee basis.
Employee with impairment -related work
expenses.  Impairment-related work expenses
are the allowable expenses of an individual with
physical or mental disabilities for attendant care
at their place of employment. They also include
other expenses in connection with the place of
employment that enable the employee to work.
See Pub. 463, T ravel, Gift, and Car Expenses,
for more details.
Allowable unreimbursed employee expenses.  If you qualify as an employee in one of
the categories mentioned above, you may be
able to deduct the following items as unreimbursed employee expenses.
Unreimbursed employee expenses for individuals in these categories of employment are
deducted as adjustments to gross income.
Qualified employees listed in one of the categories above must complete Form 2106, Employee Business Expenses, to take the deduction.
Y ou can deduct only unreimbursed employee expenses that are paid or incurred during your tax year, for carrying on your trade or
business of being an employee, and ordinary
and necessary.
An expense is ordinary if it’s common and
accepted in your trade, business, or profession.
An expense is necessary if it’s appropriate and
helpful to your business. An expense doesn’t
have to be required to be considered necessary.
Educator Expenses
If you were an eligible educator in 2025, you
can deduct up to $300 of qualified expenses
you paid in 2025 as an adjustment to gross income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 11,
rather than as a miscellaneous itemized deduction. If you and your spouse are filing jointly and
both of you were eligible educators, the maximum deduction is $600. However, neither
spouse can deduct more than $300 of their
qualified expenses. For additional information,
see Educator Expenses  in Pub. 529, Miscellaneous Deductions.
Educator expenses include amounts
paid or incurred in 2025 for personal
protective equipment, disinfectant, and
other supplies used for the prevention of the
spread of coronavirus. For more information,
see the instructions for Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 11, and Educator Expenses in Pub.
529, Miscellaneous Deductions.
TIP
Page 103 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 12 Other Itemized Deductions 101

[PAGE 104]
Expenses You Can’t
Deduct
Because of the suspension of miscellaneous
itemized deductions, there are two categories of
expenses you can’t deduct: miscellaneous
itemized deductions subject to the 2% -of-AGI
limitation, and those expenses that are traditionally nondeductible under the Internal Revenue
Code. Both categories of deduction are discussed next.
Miscellaneous Deductions Subject
to 2% AGI
Unless you fall into one of the qualified categories of employment under Unreimbursed Employee Expenses , earlier, miscellaneous itemized deductions that are subject to the
2%-of-AGI limitation can no longer be claimed.
For expenses not related to unreimbursed employee expenses, you generally can’t deduct
the following expenses, even if you fall into one
of the qualified categories of employment listed
earlier.
Appraisal Fees
Appraisal fees you pay to figure a casualty loss
or the fair market value of donated property are
miscellaneous itemized deductions and can no
longer be deducted.
Casualty and Theft Losses
Damaged or stolen property used in performing
services as an employee is a miscellaneous deduction and can no longer be deducted. For
other casualty and theft losses, see Pub. 547,
Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts.
Clerical Help and Office Rent
Office expenses, such as rent and clerical help,
you pay in connection with your investments
and collecting taxable income on those investments are miscellaneous itemized deductions
and are no longer deductible.
Credit or Debit Card Convenience
Fees
The convenience fee charged by the card processor for paying your income tax (including estimated tax payments) by credit or debit card is
a miscellaneous itemized deduction and is no
longer deductible.
Depreciation on Home Computer
If you use your home computer to produce income (for example, to manage your investments
that produce taxable income), the depreciation
of the computer for that part of the usage of the
computer is a miscellaneous itemized deduction and is no longer deductible.
Fees To Collect Interest and
Dividends
Fees you pay to a broker, bank, trustee, or similar agent to collect your taxable bond interest or
dividends on shares of stock are miscellaneous
itemized deductions and can no longer be deducted.
Hobby Expenses
A hobby isn’t a business because it isn’t carried
on to make a profit. Hobby expenses are miscellaneous itemized deductions and can no longer be deducted.
Indirect Deductions of
Pass-Through Entities
Pass-through entities include partnerships, S
corporations, and mutual funds that aren’t publicly offered. Deductions of pass -through entities are passed through to the partners or
shareholders. The partner’s or shareholder’s
share of passed -through deductions for investment expenses are miscellaneous itemized deductions and can no longer be deducted.
Nonpublicly offered mutual funds.  These
funds will send you a Form 1099-DIV , Dividends
and Distributions, or a substitute form, showing
your share of gross income and investment expenses. The investment expenses reported on
Form 1099 -DIV are a miscellaneous itemized
deduction and are no longer deductible.
Investment Fees and Expenses
Investment fees, custodial fees, trust administration fees, and other expenses you paid for
managing your investments that produce taxable income are miscellaneous itemized deductions and are no longer deductible.
Legal Expenses
Y ou can usually deduct legal expenses that you
incur in attempting to produce or collect taxable
income or that you pay in connection with the
determination, collection, or refund of any tax.
Legal expenses that you incur in attempting
to produce or collect taxable income, or that you
pay in connection with the determination, collection, or refund of any tax are miscellaneous
itemized deductions and are no longer deductible.
Y ou can deduct expenses of resolving tax issues relating to profit or loss from business reported on Schedule C (Form 1040), Profit or
Loss From Business, from rentals or royalties
reported on Schedule E (Form 1040), Supplemental Income and Loss, or from farm income
and expenses reported on Schedule F (Form
1040), Profit or Loss From Farming. Expenses
for resolving nonbusiness tax issues are miscellaneous itemized deductions and are no longer
deductible.
Loss on Deposits
For information on whether, and if so, how, you
may deduct a loss on your deposit in a qualified
financial institution, see Loss on Deposits  in
Pub. 547.
Repayments of Income
Generally, repayments of amounts that you included in income in an earlier year is a miscellaneous itemized deduction and can no longer be
deducted. If you had to repay more than $3,000
that you included in your income in an earlier
year, you may be able to deduct the amount.
See Repayments Under Claim of Right, later.
Repayments of Social Security
Benefits
For information on how to deduct your repayments of certain social security benefits, see
Repayments More Than Gross Benefits  in
chapter 7.
Safe Deposit Box Rent
Rent you pay for a safe deposit box you use to
store taxable income -producing stocks, bonds,
or investment-related papers is a miscellaneous
itemized deduction and can no longer be deducted. Y ou also can’t deduct the rent if you use
the box for jewelry, other personal items, or
tax-exempt securities.
Service Charges on Dividend
Reinvestment Plans
Service charges you pay as a subscriber in a
dividend reinvestment plan are a miscellaneous
itemized deduction and can no longer be deducted. These service charges include payments for:
• Holding shares acquired through a plan,
• Collecting and reinvesting cash dividends,
and
• Keeping individual records and providing
detailed statements of accounts.
Tax Preparation Fees
T ax preparation fees on the return for the year in
which you pay them are a miscellaneous itemized deduction and can no longer be deducted.
These fees include the cost of tax preparation
software programs and tax publications. They
also include any fee you paid for electronic filing
of your return.
Trustee’s Administrative Fees for
IRA
T rustee’s administrative fees that are billed separately and paid by you in connection with your
IRA are a miscellaneous itemized deduction
and can no longer be deducted. For more information about IRAs, see chapter 9.
Nondeductible
Expenses
In addition to the miscellaneous itemized deductions discussed earlier, you can’t deduct the
following expenses.
List of Nondeductible
Expenses
• Adoption expenses.
• Broker’s commissions.
• Burial or funeral expenses, including the
cost of a cemetery lot.
• Campaign expenses.
• Capital expenses.
• Check-writing fees.
• Club dues.
Page 104 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
102 Chapter 12 Other Itemized Deductions Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 105]
• Commuting expenses.
• Fees and licenses, such as car licenses,
marriage licenses, and dog tags.
• Fines or penalties.
• Health spa expenses.
• Hobby losses, but see Hobby Expenses,
earlier.
• Home repairs, insurance, and rent.
• Home security system.
• Illegal bribes and kickbacks.
• Investment-related seminars.
• Life insurance premiums paid by the insured.
• Lobbying expenses.
• Losses from the sale of your home, furniture, personal car, etc.
• Lost or misplaced cash or property.
• Lunches with co-workers.
• Meals while working late.
• Medical expenses as business expenses
other than medical examinations required
by your employer.
• Personal disability insurance premiums.
• Personal legal expenses.
• Personal, living, or family expenses.
• Political contributions.
• Professional accreditation fees.
• Professional reputation improvement expense.
• Relief fund contributions.
• Residential telephone line.
• Stockholders’ meeting attendance expenses.
• T ax-exempt income earning/collecting expenses.
• The value of wages never received or lost
vacation time.
• T ravel expenses for another individual.
• Voluntary unemployment benefit fund contributions.
• Wristwatches.
Adoption Expenses
Y ou can’t deduct the expenses of adopting a
child, but you may be able to take a credit for
those expenses. See the Instructions for Form
8839, Qualified Adoption Expenses, for more
information.
Campaign Expenses
Y ou can’t deduct campaign expenses of a candidate for any office, even if the candidate is
running for reelection to the office. These include qualification and registration fees for primary elections.
Legal fees.  Y ou can’t deduct legal fees paid
to defend charges that arise from participation
in a political campaign.
Check-Writing Fees on Personal
Account
If you have a personal checking account, you
can’t deduct fees charged by the bank for the
privilege of writing checks, even if the account
pays interest.
Club Dues
Generally, you can’t deduct the cost of membership in any club organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose. This includes business, social, athletic, luncheon,
sporting, airline, hotel, golf, and country clubs.
Y ou can’t deduct dues paid to an organization if one of its main purposes is to:
• Conduct entertainment activities for members or their guests, or
• Provide members or their guests with access to entertainment facilities.
Dues paid to airline, hotel, and luncheon
clubs aren’t deductible.
Commuting Expenses
Y ou can’t deduct commuting expenses (the cost
of transportation between your home and your
main or regular place of work). If you haul tools,
instruments, or other items in your car to and
from work, you can deduct only the additional
cost of hauling the items such as the rent on a
trailer to carry the items.
Fines and Penalties
Generally, no deduction is allowed for fines and
penalties paid to a government or specified
nongovernmental entity for the violation of any
law except in the following situations.
• Amounts that constitute restitution.
• Amounts paid to come into compliance
with the law.
• Amounts paid or incurred as the result of
certain court orders in which no government or specified nongovernmental
agency is a party.
• Amounts paid or incurred for taxes due.
Nondeductible amounts include an amount
paid in settlement of your actual or potential liability for a fine or penalty (civil or criminal). Fines
or penalties include amounts paid such as parking tickets, tax penalties, and penalties deducted from teachers’ paychecks after an illegal
strike.
No deduction is allowed for the restitution
amount or amount paid to come into compliance with the law unless the amounts are specifically identified in the settlement agreement
or court order. Also, any amount paid or incurred as reimbursement to the government for the
costs of any investigation or litigation are not eligible for the exceptions and are nondeductible.
Health Spa Expenses
Y ou can’t deduct health spa expenses, even if
there is a job requirement to stay in excellent
physical condition, such as might be required of
a law enforcement officer.
Home Security System
Y ou can’t deduct the cost of a home security
system as a miscellaneous deduction. However, you may be able to claim a deduction for a
home security system as a business expense if
you have a home office. See Security system
under Figuring the Deduction in Pub. 587.
Investment-Related Seminars
Y ou can’t deduct any expenses for attending a
convention, seminar, or similar meeting for investment purposes.
Life Insurance Premiums
Y ou can’t deduct premiums you pay on your life
insurance. Y ou may be able to deduct, as alimony, premiums you pay on life insurance policies assigned to your former spouse. See Pub.
504, Divorced or Separated Individuals, for information on alimony.
Lobbying Expenses
Y ou generally can’t deduct amounts paid or incurred for lobbying expenses. These include expenses to:
• Influence legislation;
• Participate or intervene in any political
campaign for, or against, any candidate for
public office;
• Attempt to influence the general public, or
segments of the public, about elections,
legislative matters, or referendums; or
• Communicate directly with covered executive branch officials in any attempt to influence the official actions or positions of
those officials.
Lobbying expenses also include any amounts
paid or incurred for research, preparation, planning, or coordination of any of these activities.
Dues used for lobbying.  If a tax -exempt
organization notifies you that part of the dues or
other amounts you pay to the organization are
used to pay nondeductible lobbying expenses,
you can’t deduct that part. See Lobbying Expenses in Pub. 529 for information on exceptions.
Lost or Mislaid Cash or Property
Y ou can’t deduct a loss based on the mere disappearance of money or property. However, an
accidental loss or disappearance of property
can qualify as a casualty if it results from an
identifiable event that is sudden, unexpected, or
unusual. See Pub. 547 for more information.
Lunches With Co-Workers
Y ou can’t deduct the expenses of lunches with
co-workers, except while traveling away from
home on business. See Pub. 463 for information
on deductible expenses while traveling away
from home.
Meals While Working Late
Y ou can’t deduct the cost of meals while working late. However, you may be able to claim a
deduction if the cost of meals is a deductible
entertainment expense, or if you’re traveling
Page 105 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 12 Other Itemized Deductions 103

[PAGE 106]
away from home. See Pub. 463 for information
on deductible entertainment expenses and expenses while traveling away from home.
Personal Legal Expenses
Y ou can’t deduct personal legal expenses such
as those for the following.
• Custody of children.
• Breach of promise to marry suit.
• Civil or criminal charges resulting from a
personal relationship.
• Damages for personal injury, except for
certain unlawful discrimination and whistle-blower claims.
• Preparation of a title (or defense or perfection of a title).
• Preparation of a will.
• Property claims or property settlement in a
divorce.
Y ou can’t deduct these expenses even if a
result of the legal proceeding is the loss of income-producing property.
Political Contributions
Y ou can’t deduct contributions made to a political candidate, a campaign committee, or a
newsletter fund. Advertisements in convention
bulletins and admissions to dinners or programs
that benefit a political party or political candidate aren’t deductible.
Professional Accreditation Fees
Y ou can’t deduct professional accreditation fees
such as the following.
• Accounting certificate fees paid for the initial right to practice accounting.
• Bar exam fees and incidental expenses in
securing initial admission to the bar.
• Medical and dental license fees paid to get
initial licensing.
Professional Reputation
Y ou can’t deduct expenses of radio and TV appearances to increase your personal prestige or
establish your professional reputation.
Relief Fund Contributions
Y ou can’t deduct contributions paid to a private
plan that pays benefits to any covered employee who can’t work because of any injury or
illness not related to the job.
Residential Telephone Service
Y ou can’t deduct any charge (including taxes)
for basic local telephone service for the first telephone line to your residence, even if it’s used
in a trade or business.
Stockholders’ Meetings
Y ou can’t deduct transportation and other expenses you pay to attend stockholders’ meetings of companies in which you own stock but
have no other interest. Y ou can’t deduct these
expenses even if you’re attending the meeting
to get information that would be useful in making further investments.
Tax-Exempt Income Expenses
Y ou can’t deduct expenses to produce tax -exempt income. Y ou can’t deduct interest on a
debt incurred or continued to buy or carry
tax-exempt securities.
If you have expenses to produce both taxable and tax -exempt income, but you can’t identify the expenses that produce each type of income, you must divide the expenses based on
the amount of each type of income to determine
the amount that you can deduct.
Travel Expenses for Another
Individual
Y ou generally can’t deduct travel expenses you
pay or incur for a spouse, dependent, or other
individual who accompanies you (or your employee) on business or personal travel unless
the spouse, dependent, or other individual is an
employee of the taxpayer, the travel is for a
bona fide business purpose, and such expenses would otherwise be deductible by the
spouse, dependent, or other individual. See
Pub. 463 for more information on deductible
travel expenses.
Voluntary Unemployment
Benefit Fund Contributions
Y ou can’t deduct voluntary unemployment benefit fund contributions you make to a union fund
or a private fund. However, you can deduct contributions as taxes if state law requires you to
make them to a state unemployment fund that
covers you for the loss of wages from unemployment caused by business conditions.
Wristwatches
Y ou can’t deduct the cost of a wristwatch, even
if there is a job requirement that you know the
correct time to properly perform your duties.
Expenses You Can
Deduct
Y ou can deduct the items listed below as itemized deductions. Report these items on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 16, or Schedule A (Form
1040-NR), line 7.
List of Deductions
Each of the following items is discussed in detail after the list (except where indicated).
• Amortizable premium on taxable bonds.
• Casualty and theft losses from incomeproducing property.
• Excess deductions of an estate or trust.
• Federal estate tax on income in respect of
a decedent.
• Gambling losses up to the amount of gambling winnings.
• Impairment-related work expenses of persons with disabilities.
• Losses from Ponzi-type investment
schemes (see Pub. 547 for more information).
• Repayments of more than $3,000 under a
claim of right.
• Unlawful discrimination claims.
• Unrecovered investment in an annuity.
Amortizable Premium on Taxable
Bonds
In general, if the amount you pay for a bond is
greater than its stated principal amount, the excess is bond premium. Y ou can elect to amortize the premium on taxable bonds. The amortization of the premium is generally an offset to
interest income on the bond rather than a separate deduction item.
Part of the premium on some bonds may be
an itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form
1040). For more information, see Amortizable
Premium on T axable Bonds  in Pub. 529 and
Bond Premium Amortization  in chapter 3 of
Pub. 550, Investment Income and Expenses.
Casualty and Theft Losses of
Income-Producing Property
Y ou can deduct a casualty or theft loss as an
itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040),
line 16, if the damaged or stolen property was
income-producing property (property held for
investment, such as stocks, notes, bonds, gold,
silver, vacant lots, and works of art). First, report
the loss in Form 4684, Section B. Y ou may also
have to include the loss on Form 4797 if you’re
otherwise required to file that form. T o figure
your deduction, add all casualty or theft losses
from this type of property included on Form
4684, lines 32 and 38b, or Form 4797, line 18a.
For more information on casualty and theft losses, see Pub. 547.
Excess Deductions of an Estate or
Trust
Generally, if an estate or trust has an excess deduction resulting from total deductions being
greater than its gross income, in the estate’s or
trust’s last tax year, a beneficiary can deduct the
excess deductions, depending on its character.
The excess deductions retain their character as
an adjustment to arrive at adjusted gross income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), as a
non-miscellaneous itemized deduction reported
on Schedule A (Form 1040), or as a miscellaneous itemized deduction. For more information
on excess deductions of an estate or trust, see
the Instructions for Schedule K -1 (Form 1041)
for a Beneficiary Filing Form 1040.
Federal Estate Tax on Income in
Respect of a Decedent
Y ou can deduct the federal estate tax attributable to income in respect of a decedent that you
as a beneficiary include in your gross income.
Income in respect of the decedent is gross income that the decedent would have received
had death not occurred and that wasn’t properly
includible in the decedent’s final income tax return. See Pub. 559, Survivors, Executors, and
Administrators, for more information.
Page 106 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
104 Chapter 12 Other Itemized Deductions Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 107]
Gambling Losses up to the
Amount of Gambling Winnings
Y ou must report the full amount of your gambling winnings for the year on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 8b. Y ou deduct your gambling losses
for the year on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 16.
Y ou can’t deduct gambling losses that are more
than your winnings.
Y ou can’t reduce your gambling winnings by your gambling losses and report the difference. Y ou must report the
full amount of your winnings as income and
claim your losses (up to the amount of winnings) as an itemized deduction. Therefore,
your records should show your winnings separately from your losses.
Diary of winnings and losses. Y ou
must keep an accurate diary or similar
record of your losses and winnings.
Y our diary should contain at least the following
information.
• The date and type of your specific wager or
wagering activity.
• The name and address or location of the
gambling establishment.
• The names of other persons present with
you at the gambling establishment.
• The amount(s) you won or lost.
CAUTION
!
RECORDS
See Pub. 529 for more information.
Impairment-Related Work
Expenses
If you have a physical or mental disability that
limits your being employed, or substantially limits one or more of your major life activities, such
as performing manual tasks, walking, speaking,
breathing, learning, and working, you can deduct your impairment-related work expenses.
Impairment-related work expenses are ordinary and necessary business expenses for attendant care services at your place of work and
for other expenses in connection with your
place of work that are necessary for you to be
able to work.
Self-employed.  If you’re self-employed, enter your impairment -related work expenses on
the appropriate form (Schedule C (Form 1040),
Schedule E (Form 1040), or Schedule F (Form
1040)) used to report your business income and
expenses.
Repayments Under Claim of Right
If you had to repay more than $3,000 that you
included in your income in an earlier year because at the time you thought you had an unrestricted right to it, you may be able to deduct the
amount you repaid or take a credit against your
tax. See Repayments in chapter 8 for more information.
Unlawful Discrimination Claims
Y ou may be able to deduct, as an adjustment to
income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 24h,
attorney fees and court costs for actions settled
or decided after October 22, 2004, involving a
claim of unlawful discrimination, a claim against
the U.S. Government, or a claim made under
section 1862(b)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act.
However, the amount you can deduct on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 24h, is limited to
the amount of the judgment or settlement you
are including in income for the tax year. See
Pub. 525, T axable and Nontaxable Income, for
more information.
Unrecovered Investment in
Annuity
A retiree who contributed to the cost of an annuity can exclude from income a part of each payment received as a tax -free return of the retiree’s investment. If the retiree dies before the
entire investment is recovered tax free, any unrecovered investment can be deducted on the
retiree’s final income tax return. See Pub. 575,
Pension and Annuity Income, for more information about the tax treatment of pensions and annuities.
Page 107 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 12 Other Itemized Deductions 105

[PAGE 108]
Part Four.
Figuring Your
Taxes, and
Refundable and
Nonrefundable
Credits
The two chapters in this part explain how to figure your tax. They also
discuss tax credits that, unlike deductions, are subtracted directly from your
tax and reduce your tax dollar for dollar.
The Form 1040 and 1040-SR schedules that are discussed in these
chapters are:
• Schedule 1, Additional Income and Adjustments to Income;
• Schedule 2, Additional T axes; and
• Schedule 3, Additional Credits and Payments.
13.
How To Figure
Your Tax
Introduction
After you have figured your income and deductions, your next step is to figure your tax. This
chapter discusses:
• The general steps you take to figure your
tax,
• An additional tax you may have to pay
called the alternative minimum tax (AMT),
and
• The conditions you must meet if you want
the IRS to figure your tax.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publication
503 Child and Dependent Care Expenses
505 T ax Withholding and Estimated T ax
525 T axable and Nontaxable Income
531 Reporting Tip Income
550 Investment Income and Expenses
560 Retirement Plans for Small Business
(SEP , SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans)
575 Pension and Annuity Income
596 Earned Income Credit (EIC)
926 Household Employer’s T ax Guide
969 Health Savings Accounts and Other
T ax-Favored Health Plans
970 T ax Benefits for Education
974 Premium T ax Credit (PTC)
  503
  505
  525
  531
  550
  560
  575
  596
  926
  969
  970
  974
Form (and Instructions)
W-2 Wage and T ax Statement
Schedule R (Form 1040) Credit for the
Elderly or the Disabled
Schedule SE (Form 1040)
Self-Employment T ax
Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) Credits for
Qualifying Children and Other
Dependents
1116 Foreign T ax Credit
3800 General Business Credit
4136 Credit for Federal T ax Paid on Fuels
4970 T ax on Accumulation Distribution of
T rusts
5329 Additional T axes on Qualified Plans
(Including IRAs) and Other
T ax-Favored Accounts
5695 Residential Energy Credits
5884 Work Opportunity Credit
8396 Mortgage Interest Credit
8801 Credit for Prior Y ear Minimum
T ax—Individuals, Estates, and T rusts
8835 Renewable Electricity Production
Credit
8839 Qualified Adoption Expenses
8846 Credit for Employer Social Security
and Medicare T axes Paid on Certain
Employee Tips
8853 Archer MSAs and Long-T erm Care
Insurance Contracts
8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement
Savings Contributions
8889 Health Savings Accounts (HSAs)
8910 Alternative Motor Vehicle Credit
8912 Credit to Holders of T ax Credit
Bonds
8936 Clean Vehicle Credits
8959 Additional Medicare T ax
8960 Net Investment Income
T ax—Individuals, Estates, and T rusts
8962 Premium T ax Credit (PTC)
  W-2
  Schedule R (Form 1040)
  Schedule SE (Form 1040)
  Schedule 8812 (Form 1040)
  1116
  3800
  4136
  4970
  5329
  5695
  5884
  8396
  8801
  8835
  8839
  8846
  8853
  8880
  8889
  8910
  8912
  8936
  8959
  8960
  8962
Figuring Your Tax
Y our income tax is based on your taxable income. After you figure your income tax and
AMT , if any, subtract your tax credits and add
any other taxes you may owe. The result is your
total tax. Compare your total tax with your total
payments to determine whether you are entitled
to a refund or must make a payment.
This section provides a general outline of
how to figure your tax. Y ou can find step-by-step
directions in the Instructions for Form 1040.
Tax. Most taxpayers use either the T ax T able or
the T ax Computation Worksheet to figure their
income tax. However, there are special methods if your income includes any of the following
items.
• A net capital gain. See Pub. 550.
• Qualified dividends taxed at the same
rates as a net capital gain. See Pub. 550.
• Lump-sum distributions. See Pub. 575.
• Farming or fishing income. See Schedule J
(Form 1040).
• T ax for certain children who have unearned
income. See Form 8615.
• Parent’s election to report child’s interest
and dividends. See Form 8814.
• Foreign earned income exclusion or the
housing exclusion. (See Form 2555, Foreign Earned Income, and the Foreign
Earned Income T ax Worksheet in the Instructions for Form 1040.)
Credits. After you figure your income tax and
any AMT (discussed later), determine if you are
eligible for any tax credits. Eligibility information
for these tax credits is discussed in other publications and your form instructions. The following items are some of the credits you may be
able to subtract from your tax and shows where
you can find more information on each credit.
• Adoption credit. See Form 8839.
• Alternative motor vehicle credit. See Form
8910.
• Child and dependent care credit. See Pub.
503.
• Child tax credit. See Schedule 8812 (Form
1040).
Page 108 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
106 Chapter 13 How To Figure Your Tax Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 109]
• Credit for employer social security and
Medicare taxes paid on certain employee
tips. See Form 8846.
• Credit to holders of tax credit bonds. See
Form 8912.
• Education credit. See Pub. 970.
• Elderly or disabled credit. See Schedule R
(Form 1040).
• Foreign tax credit. See Form 1116.
• General business credit. See Form 3800.
• Mortgage interest credit. See Form 8396.
• Clean vehicle credits. See Form 8936.
• Premium tax credit. See Pub. 974.
• Prior year minimum tax credit. See Form
8801.
• Renewable electricity production credit.
See Form 8835.
• Residential clean energy credit. See Form
5695.
• Retirement savings contribution credit. See
Form 8880.
• Work opportunity credit. See Form 5884.
Some credits (such as the earned income
credit) aren’t listed because they are treated as
payments. See Payments, later.
Other taxes. After you subtract your tax credits, determine whether there are any other taxes
you must pay. This chapter doesn’t explain
these other taxes. Y ou can find that information
in other publications and your form instructions.
See the following list for other taxes you may
need to add to your income tax.
• Additional Medicare tax. See Form 8959.
• Additional tax on ABLE accounts. See
Pub. 969.
• Additional tax on Archer MSAs and
long-term care insurance contracts. See
Form 8853.
• Additional tax on Coverdell ESAs. See
Form 5329.
• Additional tax on HSAs. See Form 8889.
• Additional tax on income you received from
a nonqualified deferred compensation plan
that fails to meet certain requirements. See
the Instructions for Form 1040.
• Additional tax on qualified plans and other
tax-favored accounts. See Form 5329.
• Additional tax on qualified retirement plans
and IRAs. See Form 5329.
• Additional tax on qualified tuition programs. See Pub. 970.
• Excise tax on insider stock compensation
from an expatriated corporation. See the
Instructions for Form 1040.
• Household employment taxes. See Pub.
926.
• Interest on the deferred tax on gain from
certain installment sales with a sales price
over $150,000. See the Instructions for
Form 1040.
• Interest on the tax due on installment income from the sale of certain residential
lots and timeshares. See the Instructions
for Form 1040.
• Net investment income tax. See Form
8960.
• Recapture of an education credit. See Pub.
970.
• Recapture of other credits. See the Instructions for Form 1040.
• Section 72(m)(5) excess benefits tax. See
Pub. 560.
• Self-employment tax. See Schedule SE
(Form 1040).
• Social security and Medicare tax on tips.
See Pub. 531.
• Social security and Medicare tax on wages. See Pub. 525.
• T ax on accumulation distribution of trusts.
See Form 4970.
• T ax on golden parachute payments. See
the Instructions for Form 1040.
• Uncollected social security and Medicare
tax on group-term life insurance. See Form
W-2.
• Uncollected social security and Medicare
tax on tips. See Pub. 531.
Y ou may also have to pay AMT (discussed
later in this chapter).
Payments. After you determine your total tax,
figure the total payments you have already
made for the year. Include credits that are treated as payments. This chapter doesn’t explain
these payments and credits. Y ou can find that
information in other publications and your form
instructions. See the following list of payments
and credits that you may be able to include in
your total payments.
• Additional child tax credit. See Schedule
8812 (Form 1040).
• American opportunity credit. See Pub. 970.
• Credit for federal tax on fuels. See Form
4136.
• Credit for tax on undistributed capital gain.
See the Instructions for Form 1040.
• Earned income credit. See Pub. 596.
• Estimated tax paid. See Pub. 505.
• Excess social security and RRTA tax withheld. See the Instructions for Form 1040.
• Federal income tax withheld. See Pub.
505.
• Net premium tax credit. See the Instructions for Form 8962 or the Instructions for
Form 1040.
• Qualified sick and family leave credits. See
the Instructions for Form 1040.
• T ax paid with extension. See the Instructions for Form 1040.
Refund or balance due.  T o determine
whether you are entitled to a refund or whether
you must make a payment, compare your total
payments with your total tax. If you are entitled
to a refund, see your form instructions for information on having it directly deposited into one
or more of your accounts (including a traditional
IRA, Roth IRA, or a SEP-IRA).
Alternative Minimum
Tax (AMT)
This section briefly discusses an additional tax
you may have to pay.
The tax law gives special treatment to some
kinds of income and allows special deductions
and credits for some kinds of expenses. T axpayers who benefit from this special treatment
may have to pay at least a minimum amount of
tax through an additional tax called AMT .
Y ou may have to pay the AMT if your taxable
income for regular tax purposes, combined with
certain adjustments and tax preference items, is
more than a certain amount. See Form 6251,
Alternative Minimum T ax—Individuals.
Adjustments and tax preference items.  The
more common adjustments and tax preference
items include:
• Addition of enhanced senior deduction;
• Addition of the standard deduction (if
claimed);
• Addition of itemized deductions claimed for
state and local taxes and certain interest;
• Subtraction of any refund of state and local
taxes included in gross income;
• Changes to accelerated depreciation of
certain property;
• Difference between gain or loss on the sale
of property reported for regular tax purposes and AMT purposes;
• Addition of certain income from incentive
stock options;
• Change in certain passive activity loss deductions;
• Addition of certain depletion that is more
than the adjusted basis of the property;
• Addition of part of the deduction for certain
intangible drilling costs; and
• Addition of tax-exempt interest on certain
private activity bonds.
More information. For more information about
the AMT , see the Instructions for Form 6251.
Tax Figured by the IRS
If you file by the due date of your return (not
counting extensions)—April 15, 2026, for most
people—you can have the IRS figure your tax
for you on Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
If the IRS figures your tax and you paid too
much, you will receive a refund. If you didn’t pay
enough, you will receive a bill for the balance.
T o avoid interest or the penalty for late payment,
you must pay the bill within 30 days of the date
of the bill or by the due date for your return,
whichever is later.
The IRS can also figure the credit for the elderly or the disabled and the earned income
credit for you.
When the IRS cannot figure your tax.  The
IRS can’t figure your tax for you if any of the following apply.
Page 109 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 13 How To Figure Your Tax 107

[PAGE 110]
1. Y ou want your refund directly deposited
into your checking or savings account.
2. Y ou want any part of your refund applied to
your 2026 estimated tax.
3. Y ou had income for the year from sources
other than wages, salaries, tips, interest,
dividends, taxable social security benefits,
unemployment compensation, IRA distributions, pensions, and annuities.
4. Y our taxable income is $100,000 or more.
5. Y ou itemize deductions.
6. Y ou file any of the following forms.
a. Form 2555, Foreign Earned Income.
b. Form 4137, Social Security and Medicare T ax on Unreported Tip Income.
c. Form 4970, T ax on Accumulation Distribution of T rusts.
d. Form 4972, T ax on Lump-Sum Distributions.
e. Form 6198, At-Risk Limitations.
f. Form 6251, Alternative Minimum
T ax—Individuals.
g. Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs.
h. Form 8615, T ax for Certain Children
Who Have Unearned Income.
i. Form 8814, Parents’ Election T o Report Child’s Interest and Dividends.
j. Form 8839, Qualified Adoption Expenses.
k. Form 8853, Archer MSAs and
Long-T erm Care Insurance Contracts.
l. Form 8889, Health Savings Accounts
(HSAs).
m. Form 8919, Uncollected Social Security and Medicare T ax on Wages.
Filing the Return
After you complete the line entries for the tax
form you are filing, fill in your name and address. Enter your social security number in the
space provided. If you are married, enter the social security numbers of you and your spouse,
even if you file separately. Sign and date your
return and enter your occupation(s). If you are
filing a joint return, both you and your spouse
must sign it. Enter your daytime phone number
in the space provided. This may help speed the
processing of your return if we have a question
that can be answered over the phone. If you are
filing a joint return, you may enter either your or
your spouse’s daytime phone number.
If you want to allow your preparer, a friend, a
family member, or any other person you choose
to discuss your 2025 tax return with the IRS,
check the “Y es” box in the “Third Party Designee” area on your return. Also, enter the designee’s name, phone number, and any five digits
the designee chooses as their personal identification number (PIN). If you check the “Y es” box,
you, and your spouse if filing a joint return, are
authorizing the IRS to call the designee to answer any questions that may arise during the
processing of your return.
Fill in and attach any schedules and forms
asked for on the lines you completed to your paper return. Attach a copy of each of your Forms
W-2 to your paper return. Also, attach to your
paper return any Form 1099-R you received that
has withholding tax in box 4.
Mail your return to the Internal Revenue
Service Center for the area where you live. A list
of service center addresses is in the instructions for your tax return.
Form 1040 or 1040-SR Line Entries
If you want the IRS to figure your tax.  Read
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, lines 1 through 15, and
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), if applicable. Fill in the
lines that apply to you and attach Schedule 1
(Form 1040), if applicable. Don’t complete Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 16 or 17.
If you are filing a joint return, use the space
on the dotted line next to the words “Adjusted
Gross Income” on the first page of your return to
separately show your taxable income and your
spouse’s taxable income.
Read Form 1040 or 1040 -SR, lines 19
through 33, and Schedules 2 and 3 (Form
1040), if applicable. Fill in the lines that apply to
you and attach Schedules 2 and 3 (Form 1040),
if applicable. Don’t fill in Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 22, 24, 33, or 34 through 38. Don’t fill in
Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 2 or 3. Also, don’t
complete Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 6d, if
you are completing Schedule R (Form 1040), or
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27a, if you want the
IRS to figure the credits shown on those lines.
Payments. If you have federal income tax withheld that is shown on Form W -2, box 2; Form
1099, box 4; Form W-2G, box 4; or another form
(see the Instructions for Form 1040 for more information), enter the amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 25. Enter any estimated tax payments you made on Form 1040 or 1040 -SR,
line 26.
Credit for child and dependent care expenses. If you can take this credit, complete Form
2441 and attach it to your paper return. Enter
the amount of the credit on Schedule 3 (Form
1040), line 2. The IRS will not figure this credit.
Net premium tax credit. If you take this credit,
complete Form 8962, Premium T ax Credit
(PTC), and attach it to your return. Enter the
amount of the credit on Schedule 3 (Form
1040), line 9. The IRS will not figure this credit.
Credit for the elderly or the disabled.  If you
can take this credit, the IRS can figure it for you.
Enter “CFE” on the line next to Schedule 3
(Form 1040), line 6d, and attach Schedule R
(Form 1040) to your paper return. On Schedule R (Form 1040), check the box in Part I for
your filing status and age. Complete Parts II and
III, lines 11 and 13, if they apply.
Earned income credit.  If you can take this
credit, the IRS can figure it for you. Enter “EIC”
on the dotted line on Form 1040 or 1040 -SR,
line 27a. If you elect to use your nontaxable
combat pay in figuring your EIC, enter the
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1i.
If you have a qualifying child, you must fill in
Schedule EIC (Form 1040), Earned Income
Credit, and attach it to your paper return. If you
don’t provide the child’s social security number
on Schedule EIC, line 2, the credit will be reduced or disallowed unless the child was born
and died in 2025.
If your credit for any year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed by the IRS, you may also
have to file Form 8862 with your return. For details, see the Instructions for Form 1040.
14.
Child Tax Credit
and Credit for
Other
Dependents
What’s New
SSN required by due date of return.  If you
don’t have an SSN issued before the due date
of your 2025 return (including extensions), you
can’t claim the CTC or ACTC on either your
original or an amended 2025 return. If you are
filing a joint return, only one spouse is required
to have an SSN issued by the due date of your
return in order to be eligible for the CTC and
ACTC. The other spouse may have an ITIN, but
it must have been issued on or before the due
date of the return.
CTC amount increased.  The maximum
amount of CTC for each qualifying child increased to $2,200.
Reminders
ACTC amount.  The maximum amount of
ACTC for each qualifying child is $1,700.
Schedule 8812 (Form 1040).  Schedule 8812
(Form 1040) and its instructions are the single
source for figuring and reporting the child tax
credit, credit for other dependents, and additional child tax credit. The instructions now include all applicable worksheets for figuring
these credits. As a result, Pub. 972, Child T ax
Credit, won’t be revised. For prior -year versions
of Pub. 972, go to IRS.gov/Pub972.
Abbreviations used throughout this chapter.  The following abbreviations will be used in
this chapter when appropriate.
• ACTC means additional child tax credit.
• ATIN means adoption taxpayer identification number.
• CTC means child tax credit.
• ITIN means individual taxpayer identification number.
• ODC means credit for other dependents.
Page 110 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
108 Chapter 14 Child Tax Credit and Credit for Other Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 111]
• SSN means social security number.
• TIN means taxpayer identification number.
A TIN may be an ATIN, an ITIN, or an SSN.
Other abbreviations may be used in this chapter
and will be defined as needed.
Delayed refund for returns claiming the
ACTC. The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February 2026 for returns that properly
claim the ACTC. This time frame applies to the
entire refund, not just the portion associated
with the ACTC.
Introduction
The CTC is a credit that may reduce your tax by
as much as $2,200 for each child who qualifies
you for the credit. See Limits on the CTC and
ODC, later.
The ACTC is a credit you may be able to
take if you are not able to claim the full amount
of the CTC.
The ODC is a credit that may reduce your
tax by as much as $500 for each eligible dependent.
The CTC and the ACTC shouldn’t be
confused with the child and dependent
care credit discussed in Pub. 503.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Form (and Instructions)
Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) Credits for
Qualifying Children and Other
Dependents
8862 Information T o Claim Certain Credits
After Disallowance
For these and other useful items, go to IRS.gov/
Forms.
Taxpayer Identification
Number Requirements
You must have a TIN by the due date of your
return. If you, or your spouse if filing jointly,
don’t have an SSN issued before the due date
of your 2025 return (including extensions), you
can’t claim the CTC or ACTC on either your
original or amended 2025 tax return.
If you, or your spouse if filing jointly, don’t
have an SSN or ITIN issued on or before the
due date of your 2025 return (including extensions), you can’t claim the ODC on either your
original or amended 2025 tax return.
If you apply for an ITIN on or before the due
date of your 2025 return (including extensions)
and the IRS issues you an ITIN as a result of the
application, the IRS will consider your ITIN as
issued on or before the due date of your return.
Each qualifying child you use for CTC or
ACTC must have the required SSN.  If you
have a qualifying child who doesn’t have the required SSN, you can’t use the child to claim the
CTC or ACTC on either your original or amended 2025 tax return. The required SSN is one
that is valid for employment and is issued before the due date of your 2025 return (including
extensions).
CAUTION
!
  Schedule 8812 (Form 1040)
  8862
If your qualifying child was born and died in
2025 and you don’t have an SSN for the child,
attach a copy of the child’s birth certificate,
death certificate, or hospital records. The document must show the child was born alive.
If your qualifying child doesn’t have the required SSN but has another type of TIN issued
on or before the due date of your 2025 return
(including extensions), you may be able to claim
the ODC for that child. See Credit for Other Dependents (ODC), later.
Each dependent you use for the ODC must
have a TIN by the due date of your return. If
you have a dependent who doesn’t have an
SSN, ITIN, or ATIN issued on or before the due
date of your 2025 return (including extensions),
you can’t use that dependent to claim the ODC
on either your original or amended 2025 tax return.
If you apply for an ITIN or ATIN for the dependent on or before the due date of your 2025
return (including extensions) and the IRS issues
the ITIN or ATIN as a result of the application,
the IRS will consider the ITIN or ATIN as issued
on or before the due date of your return.
Improper Claims
If you erroneously claim the CTC, ACTC, or
ODC, and it is later determined that your error
was due to reckless or intentional disregard of
the CTC, ACTC, or ODC rules, you will not be
allowed to claim any of these credits for 2 years.
If it is determined that your error was due to
fraud, you will not be allowed to claim any of
these credits for 10 years. Y ou may also have to
pay penalties. See How to appeal the disallowance period  in the Instructions for Form 8862,
for more information about what to do if you disagree with our determination that you can’t
claim the credit for 2 or 10 years.
Form 8862 may be required.  If your CTC (refundable or nonrefundable depending on the
tax year), ACTC, or ODC for a year after 2015
was denied or reduced for any reason other
than a math or clerical error, you must attach
Form 8862 to your tax return to claim the CTC,
ACTC, or ODC, unless an exception applies.
See Form 8862, and its instructions for more information, including whether an exception applies.
Child Tax Credit (CTC)
The CTC is for individuals who claim a child as
a dependent if the child meets additional conditions (described later).
Note: This credit is different from and in addition to the credit for child and dependent care
expenses and the earned income credit that
you may also be eligible to claim.
The maximum amount you can claim for the
credit is $2,200 for each child who qualifies you
for the CTC. But, see Limits on the CTC and
ODC, later.
For more information about claiming the
CTC, see Claiming the CTC and ODC, later.
Qualifying Child for the
CTC
A child qualifies you for the CTC if the child
meets all of the following conditions.
1. The child is your son, daughter, stepchild,
foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother,
stepsister, half brother, half sister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your
grandchild, niece, or nephew).
2. The child was under age 17 at the end of
2025.
3. The child didn’t provide over half the
child’s own support for 2025.
4. The child lived with you for more than half
of 2025 (see Exceptions to time lived with
you, later).
5. The child is claimed as a dependent on
your return. See chapter 3 for more information about claiming someone as a dependent.
6. The child doesn’t file a joint return for the
year (or files it only to claim a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax
paid).
7. The child was a U.S. citizen, U.S. national,
or U.S. resident alien. For more information, see Pub. 519. If the child was adopted, see Adopted child, later.
Example. Y our child turned 17 on December 30, 2025, and is a citizen of the United
States and claimed as a dependent on your return. Y ou can't use the child to claim the CTC or
ACTC because the child was not under age 17
at the end of 2025.
If your child is age 17 or older at the
end of 2025, see Credit for Other Dependents (ODC), later.
Adopted child.  An adopted child is always
treated as your own child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with you for legal
adoption.
If you are a U.S. citizen or U.S. national and
your adopted child lived with you all year as a
member of your household in 2025, that child
meets condition 7, earlier, to be a qualifying
child for the child tax credit (or condition 3, later,
to be a qualifying person for the ODC).
Exceptions to time lived with you.  A child is
considered to have lived with you for more than
half of 2025 if the child was born or died in 2025
and your home was this child's home for more
than half the time the child was alive. T emporary
absences by you or the child for special circumstances, such as school, vacation, business,
medical care, military service, or detention in a
juvenile facility, count as time the child lived with
you.
There are also exceptions for kidnapped
children and children of divorced or separated
parents. For details, see Residency T est in
chapter 3.
Qualifying child of more than one person.
A special rule applies if your qualifying child is
the qualifying child of more than one person.
TIP
Page 111 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 17 (2025) Chapter 14 Child Tax Credit and Credit for Other Dependents 109

[PAGE 112]
For details, see Qualifying Child of More Than
One Person in chapter 3.
Required SSN
In addition to being a qualifying child for the
CTC, your child must have the required SSN.
The required SSN is one that is valid for employment and that is issued by the Social Security Administration (SSA) before the due date
of your 2025 return (including extensions).
If your qualifying child does not have
the required SSN, see Credit for Other
Dependents (ODC), later.
If your child was a U.S. citizen when the
child received the SSN, the SSN is valid for employment. If “Not Valid for Employment” is printed on your child’s social security card and your
child’s immigration status has changed so that
your child is now a U.S. citizen or permanent
resident, ask the SSA for a new social security
card without the legend. However, if “Valid for
Work Only With DHS Authorization” is printed
on your child’s social security card, your child
has the required SSN only as long as the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) authorization is valid.
If your child doesn’t have the required SSN,
you can't use the child to claim the CTC or
ACTC on either your original or amended 2025
tax return.
Credit for Other
Dependents (ODC)
This credit is for individuals with a dependent
who meets additional conditions (described
later).
Note: This credit is different from and in addition to the credit for child and dependent care
expenses that you may also be eligible to claim.
The maximum amount you can claim for this
credit is $500 for each qualifying dependent.
See Limits on the CTC and ODC, later.
For more information about claiming the
ODC, see Claiming the CTC and ODC, later.
Qualifying Person for the
ODC
A person qualifies you for the ODC if the person
meets all of the following conditions.
1. The person is claimed as a dependent on
your return. See chapter 3 for more information about claiming someone as a dependent.
TIP
2. The person can’t be used by you to claim
the CTC or ACTC. See Child T ax Credit
(CTC), earlier.
3. The person was a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or U.S. resident alien. For more information, see Pub. 519. If the person is
your adopted child, see Adopted child,
earlier.
Example. Y our sibling’s 10 -year-old child
lives in Mexico and qualifies as your dependent.
The child is not a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or
U.S. resident alien. Y ou can't use this dependent to claim the ODC.
Y ou can’t use the same child to claim
the CTC or ACTC, and the ODC.
Timely Issued TIN
In addition to being a qualifying person for the
ODC, the person must have an SSN, ITIN, or
ATIN issued to the dependent on or before the
due date of your 2025 return (including extensions). If the person has not been issued an
SSN, ITIN, or ATIN by that date, you can’t use
the person to claim the ODC on either your original or amended 2025 return. For more information, see T axpayer Identification Number Requirements, earlier.
Limits on the CTC and
ODC
The credit amount of your CTC or ODC may be
reduced if your modified adjusted gross income
(AGI) is more than the amounts shown below
for your filing status.
• Married filing jointly — $400,000.
• All other filing statuses — $200,000.
Modified AGI. For purposes of the CTC and
ODC, your modified AGI is the amount on line 3
of Schedule 8812.
For more information about limits on the
CTC and ODC, see the Instructions for Schedule 8812 (Form 1040).
Claiming the CTC and
ODC
T o claim the CTC or ODC, be sure you meet the
following requirements.
• Y ou must file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR and include the name and TIN of
CAUTION
!
each dependent for whom you are claiming
the CTC or ODC.
• Y ou must file Schedule 8812 (Form 1040).
• Y ou must file Form 8862, if applicable. See
Improper Claims, earlier.
• Y ou must enter a timely issued TIN on your
tax return for you and your spouse (if filing
jointly). See T axpayer Identification Number Requirements, earlier.
• For each qualifying child under 17 for
whom you are claiming the CTC, you must
enter the required SSN for the child in row
(3) of the Dependents section of your tax
return and check the “Child tax credit” box
in row (7). See Child T ax Credit (CTC), earlier.
• For each dependent for whom you are
claiming the ODC, you must enter the
timely issued TIN for the dependent in row
(3) of the Dependents section of your tax
return and check the “Credit for other dependents” box in row (7). See Credit for
Other Dependents (ODC), earlier.
Don't check both the Child tax credit
box and the Credit for other dependents box for the same person.
Additional Child Tax
Credit (ACTC)
This credit is for certain individuals who get less
than the full amount of the CTC.
The ODC can’t be used to figure the
ACTC. Only your CTC can be used to
figure your ACTC. If you are claiming
the ODC but not the CTC, you can’t claim the
ACTC.
Foreign earned income. If you file Form 2555
(relating to foreign earned income), you can’t
claim the ACTC.
Bona fide residents of Puerto Rico.  Bona
fide residents of Puerto Rico are no longer required to have three or more qualifying children
to be eligible to claim the ACTC. See Schedule
8812 (Form 1040) and its instructions.
How to claim the ACTC.  T o claim the ACTC,
see Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) and its instructions.
CAUTION
!
CAUTION
!
Page 112 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
110 Chapter 14 Child Tax Credit and Credit for Other Dependents Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 113]
Page 113 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025
Tax Table
CAUTION
!
See Line 16 in the Instructions for Form 1040 to see if you must use
the T ax T able below to figure your tax.
At
Least
But
Less
Than
Single Married
/f_iling
jointly*
Married
/f_iling
separately
Head
of a
household
Your tax is—
25,200
25,250
25,300
25,350
2,789
2,795
2,801
2,807
Sample Table
25,250
25,300
25,350
25,400
2,550
2,556
2,568
2,789
2,795
2,801
2,807
2,687
2,693
2,699
2,705
2,562
Example. A married couple are filing a joint return. Their taxable income on Form
1040, line 15, is $25,300. First, they find the $25,300–25,350 taxable income line.
Next, they find the column for married filing jointly and read down the column. The
amount shown where the taxable income line and filing status column meet is
$2,562. This is the tax amount they should enter in the entry space on Form 1040,
line 16.
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
0 5 0 0 0 0
5 15 1 1 1 1
15 25 2 2 2 2
25 50 4 4 4 4
50 75 6 6 6 6
75 100 9 9 9 9
100 125 11 11 11 11
125 150 14 14 14 14
150 175 16 16 16 16
175 200 19 19 19 19
200 225 21 21 21 21
225 250 24 24 24 24
250 275 26 26 26 26
275 300 29 29 29 29
300 325 31 31 31 31
325 350 34 34 34 34
350 375 36 36 36 36
375 400 39 39 39 39
400 425 41 41 41 41
425 450 44 44 44 44
450 475 46 46 46 46
475 500 49 49 49 49
500 525 51 51 51 51
525 550 54 54 54 54
550 575 56 56 56 56
575 600 59 59 59 59
600 625 61 61 61 61
625 650 64 64 64 64
650 675 66 66 66 66
675 700 69 69 69 69
700 725 71 71 71 71
725 750 74 74 74 74
750 775 76 76 76 76
775 800 79 79 79 79
800 825 81 81 81 81
825 850 84 84 84 84
850 875 86 86 86 86
875 900 89 89 89 89
900 925 91 91 91 91
925 950 94 94 94 94
950 975 96 96 96 96
975 1,000 99 99 99 99
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
1,000
1,000 1,025 101 101 101 101
1,025 1,050 104 104 104 104
1,050 1,075 106 106 106 106
1,075 1,100 109 109 109 109
1,100 1,125 111 111 111 111
1,125 1,150 114 114 114 114
1,150 1,175 116 116 116 116
1,175 1,200 119 119 119 119
1,200 1,225 121 121 121 121
1,225 1,250 124 124 124 124
1,250 1,275 126 126 126 126
1,275 1,300 129 129 129 129
1,300 1,325 131 131 131 131
1,325 1,350 134 134 134 134
1,350 1,375 136 136 136 136
1,375 1,400 139 139 139 139
1,400 1,425 141 141 141 141
1,425 1,450 144 144 144 144
1,450 1,475 146 146 146 146
1,475 1,500 149 149 149 149
1,500 1,525 151 151 151 151
1,525 1,550 154 154 154 154
1,550 1,575 156 156 156 156
1,575 1,600 159 159 159 159
1,600 1,625 161 161 161 161
1,625 1,650 164 164 164 164
1,650 1,675 166 166 166 166
1,675 1,700 169 169 169 169
1,700 1,725 171 171 171 171
1,725 1,750 174 174 174 174
1,750 1,775 176 176 176 176
1,775 1,800 179 179 179 179
1,800 1,825 181 181 181 181
1,825 1,850 184 184 184 184
1,850 1,875 186 186 186 186
1,875 1,900 189 189 189 189
1,900 1,925 191 191 191 191
1,925 1,950 194 194 194 194
1,950 1,975 196 196 196 196
1,975 2,000 199 199 199 199
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
2,000
2,000 2,025 201 201 201 201
2,025 2,050 204 204 204 204
2,050 2,075 206 206 206 206
2,075 2,100 209 209 209 209
2,100 2,125 211 211 211 211
2,125 2,150 214 214 214 214
2,150 2,175 216 216 216 216
2,175 2,200 219 219 219 219
2,200 2,225 221 221 221 221
2,225 2,250 224 224 224 224
2,250 2,275 226 226 226 226
2,275 2,300 229 229 229 229
2,300 2,325 231 231 231 231
2,325 2,350 234 234 234 234
2,350 2,375 236 236 236 236
2,375 2,400 239 239 239 239
2,400 2,425 241 241 241 241
2,425 2,450 244 244 244 244
2,450 2,475 246 246 246 246
2,475 2,500 249 249 249 249
2,500 2,525 251 251 251 251
2,525 2,550 254 254 254 254
2,550 2,575 256 256 256 256
2,575 2,600 259 259 259 259
2,600 2,625 261 261 261 261
2,625 2,650 264 264 264 264
2,650 2,675 266 266 266 266
2,675 2,700 269 269 269 269
2,700 2,725 271 271 271 271
2,725 2,750 274 274 274 274
2,750 2,775 276 276 276 276
2,775 2,800 279 279 279 279
2,800 2,825 281 281 281 281
2,825 2,850 284 284 284 284
2,850 2,875 286 286 286 286
2,875 2,900 289 289 289 289
2,900 2,925 291 291 291 291
2,925 2,950 294 294 294 294
2,950 2,975 296 296 296 296
2,975 3,000 299 299 299 299
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Publication 17 (2025) 111

[PAGE 114]
Page 114 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
3,000
3,000 3,050 303 303 303 303
3,050 3,100 308 308 308 308
3,100 3,150 313 313 313 313
3,150 3,200 318 318 318 318
3,200 3,250 323 323 323 323
3,250 3,300 328 328 328 328
3,300 3,350 333 333 333 333
3,350 3,400 338 338 338 338
3,400 3,450 343 343 343 343
3,450 3,500 348 348 348 348
3,500 3,550 353 353 353 353
3,550 3,600 358 358 358 358
3,600 3,650 363 363 363 363
3,650 3,700 368 368 368 368
3,700 3,750 373 373 373 373
3,750 3,800 378 378 378 378
3,800 3,850 383 383 383 383
3,850 3,900 388 388 388 388
3,900 3,950 393 393 393 393
3,950 4,000 398 398 398 398
4,000
4,000 4,050 403 403 403 403
4,050 4,100 408 408 408 408
4,100 4,150 413 413 413 413
4,150 4,200 418 418 418 418
4,200 4,250 423 423 423 423
4,250 4,300 428 428 428 428
4,300 4,350 433 433 433 433
4,350 4,400 438 438 438 438
4,400 4,450 443 443 443 443
4,450 4,500 448 448 448 448
4,500 4,550 453 453 453 453
4,550 4,600 458 458 458 458
4,600 4,650 463 463 463 463
4,650 4,700 468 468 468 468
4,700 4,750 473 473 473 473
4,750 4,800 478 478 478 478
4,800 4,850 483 483 483 483
4,850 4,900 488 488 488 488
4,900 4,950 493 493 493 493
4,950 5,000 498 498 498 498
5,000
5,000 5,050 503 503 503 503
5,050 5,100 508 508 508 508
5,100 5,150 513 513 513 513
5,150 5,200 518 518 518 518
5,200 5,250 523 523 523 523
5,250 5,300 528 528 528 528
5,300 5,350 533 533 533 533
5,350 5,400 538 538 538 538
5,400 5,450 543 543 543 543
5,450 5,500 548 548 548 548
5,500 5,550 553 553 553 553
5,550 5,600 558 558 558 558
5,600 5,650 563 563 563 563
5,650 5,700 568 568 568 568
5,700 5,750 573 573 573 573
5,750 5,800 578 578 578 578
5,800 5,850 583 583 583 583
5,850 5,900 588 588 588 588
5,900 5,950 593 593 593 593
5,950 6,000 598 598 598 598
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
6,000
6,000 6,050 603 603 603 603
6,050 6,100 608 608 608 608
6,100 6,150 613 613 613 613
6,150 6,200 618 618 618 618
6,200 6,250 623 623 623 623
6,250 6,300 628 628 628 628
6,300 6,350 633 633 633 633
6,350 6,400 638 638 638 638
6,400 6,450 643 643 643 643
6,450 6,500 648 648 648 648
6,500 6,550 653 653 653 653
6,550 6,600 658 658 658 658
6,600 6,650 663 663 663 663
6,650 6,700 668 668 668 668
6,700 6,750 673 673 673 673
6,750 6,800 678 678 678 678
6,800 6,850 683 683 683 683
6,850 6,900 688 688 688 688
6,900 6,950 693 693 693 693
6,950 7,000 698 698 698 698
7,000
7,000 7,050 703 703 703 703
7,050 7,100 708 708 708 708
7,100 7,150 713 713 713 713
7,150 7,200 718 718 718 718
7,200 7,250 723 723 723 723
7,250 7,300 728 728 728 728
7,300 7,350 733 733 733 733
7,350 7,400 738 738 738 738
7,400 7,450 743 743 743 743
7,450 7,500 748 748 748 748
7,500 7,550 753 753 753 753
7,550 7,600 758 758 758 758
7,600 7,650 763 763 763 763
7,650 7,700 768 768 768 768
7,700 7,750 773 773 773 773
7,750 7,800 778 778 778 778
7,800 7,850 783 783 783 783
7,850 7,900 788 788 788 788
7,900 7,950 793 793 793 793
7,950 8,000 798 798 798 798
8,000
8,000 8,050 803 803 803 803
8,050 8,100 808 808 808 808
8,100 8,150 813 813 813 813
8,150 8,200 818 818 818 818
8,200 8,250 823 823 823 823
8,250 8,300 828 828 828 828
8,300 8,350 833 833 833 833
8,350 8,400 838 838 838 838
8,400 8,450 843 843 843 843
8,450 8,500 848 848 848 848
8,500 8,550 853 853 853 853
8,550 8,600 858 858 858 858
8,600 8,650 863 863 863 863
8,650 8,700 868 868 868 868
8,700 8,750 873 873 873 873
8,750 8,800 878 878 878 878
8,800 8,850 883 883 883 883
8,850 8,900 888 888 888 888
8,900 8,950 893 893 893 893
8,950 9,000 898 898 898 898
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
9,000
9,000 9,050 903 903 903 903
9,050 9,100 908 908 908 908
9,100 9,150 913 913 913 913
9,150 9,200 918 918 918 918
9,200 9,250 923 923 923 923
9,250 9,300 928 928 928 928
9,300 9,350 933 933 933 933
9,350 9,400 938 938 938 938
9,400 9,450 943 943 943 943
9,450 9,500 948 948 948 948
9,500 9,550 953 953 953 953
9,550 9,600 958 958 958 958
9,600 9,650 963 963 963 963
9,650 9,700 968 968 968 968
9,700 9,750 973 973 973 973
9,750 9,800 978 978 978 978
9,800 9,850 983 983 983 983
9,850 9,900 988 988 988 988
9,900 9,950 993 993 993 993
9,950 10,000 998 998 998 998
10,000
10,000 10,050 1,003 1,003 1,003 1,003
10,050 10,100 1,008 1,008 1,008 1,008
10,100 10,150 1,013 1,013 1,013 1,013
10,150 10,200 1,018 1,018 1,018 1,018
10,200 10,250 1,023 1,023 1,023 1,023
10,250 10,300 1,028 1,028 1,028 1,028
10,300 10,350 1,033 1,033 1,033 1,033
10,350 10,400 1,038 1,038 1,038 1,038
10,400 10,450 1,043 1,043 1,043 1,043
10,450 10,500 1,048 1,048 1,048 1,048
10,500 10,550 1,053 1,053 1,053 1,053
10,550 10,600 1,058 1,058 1,058 1,058
10,600 10,650 1,063 1,063 1,063 1,063
10,650 10,700 1,068 1,068 1,068 1,068
10,700 10,750 1,073 1,073 1,073 1,073
10,750 10,800 1,078 1,078 1,078 1,078
10,800 10,850 1,083 1,083 1,083 1,083
10,850 10,900 1,088 1,088 1,088 1,088
10,900 10,950 1,093 1,093 1,093 1,093
10,950 11,000 1,098 1,098 1,098 1,098
11,000
11,000 11,050 1,103 1,103 1,103 1,103
11,050 11,100 1,108 1,108 1,108 1,108
11,100 11,150 1,113 1,113 1,113 1,113
11,150 11,200 1,118 1,118 1,118 1,118
11,200 11,250 1,123 1,123 1,123 1,123
11,250 11,300 1,128 1,128 1,128 1,128
11,300 11,350 1,133 1,133 1,133 1,133
11,350 11,400 1,138 1,138 1,138 1,138
11,400 11,450 1,143 1,143 1,143 1,143
11,450 11,500 1,148 1,148 1,148 1,148
11,500 11,550 1,153 1,153 1,153 1,153
11,550 11,600 1,158 1,158 1,158 1,158
11,600 11,650 1,163 1,163 1,163 1,163
11,650 11,700 1,168 1,168 1,168 1,168
11,700 11,750 1,173 1,173 1,173 1,173
11,750 11,800 1,178 1,178 1,178 1,178
11,800 11,850 1,183 1,183 1,183 1,183
11,850 11,900 1,188 1,188 1,188 1,188
11,900 11,950 1,193 1,193 1,193 1,193
11,950 12,000 1,199 1,198 1,199 1,198
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
112 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 115]
Page 115 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
12,000
12,000 12,050 1,205 1,203 1,205 1,203
12,050 12,100 1,211 1,208 1,211 1,208
12,100 12,150 1,217 1,213 1,217 1,213
12,150 12,200 1,223 1,218 1,223 1,218
12,200 12,250 1,229 1,223 1,229 1,223
12,250 12,300 1,235 1,228 1,235 1,228
12,300 12,350 1,241 1,233 1,241 1,233
12,350 12,400 1,247 1,238 1,247 1,238
12,400 12,450 1,253 1,243 1,253 1,243
12,450 12,500 1,259 1,248 1,259 1,248
12,500 12,550 1,265 1,253 1,265 1,253
12,550 12,600 1,271 1,258 1,271 1,258
12,600 12,650 1,277 1,263 1,277 1,263
12,650 12,700 1,283 1,268 1,283 1,268
12,700 12,750 1,289 1,273 1,289 1,273
12,750 12,800 1,295 1,278 1,295 1,278
12,800 12,850 1,301 1,283 1,301 1,283
12,850 12,900 1,307 1,288 1,307 1,288
12,900 12,950 1,313 1,293 1,313 1,293
12,950 13,000 1,319 1,298 1,319 1,298
13,000
13,000 13,050 1,325 1,303 1,325 1,303
13,050 13,100 1,331 1,308 1,331 1,308
13,100 13,150 1,337 1,313 1,337 1,313
13,150 13,200 1,343 1,318 1,343 1,318
13,200 13,250 1,349 1,323 1,349 1,323
13,250 13,300 1,355 1,328 1,355 1,328
13,300 13,350 1,361 1,333 1,361 1,333
13,350 13,400 1,367 1,338 1,367 1,338
13,400 13,450 1,373 1,343 1,373 1,343
13,450 13,500 1,379 1,348 1,379 1,348
13,500 13,550 1,385 1,353 1,385 1,353
13,550 13,600 1,391 1,358 1,391 1,358
13,600 13,650 1,397 1,363 1,397 1,363
13,650 13,700 1,403 1,368 1,403 1,368
13,700 13,750 1,409 1,373 1,409 1,373
13,750 13,800 1,415 1,378 1,415 1,378
13,800 13,850 1,421 1,383 1,421 1,383
13,850 13,900 1,427 1,388 1,427 1,388
13,900 13,950 1,433 1,393 1,433 1,393
13,950 14,000 1,439 1,398 1,439 1,398
14,000
14,000 14,050 1,445 1,403 1,445 1,403
14,050 14,100 1,451 1,408 1,451 1,408
14,100 14,150 1,457 1,413 1,457 1,413
14,150 14,200 1,463 1,418 1,463 1,418
14,200 14,250 1,469 1,423 1,469 1,423
14,250 14,300 1,475 1,428 1,475 1,428
14,300 14,350 1,481 1,433 1,481 1,433
14,350 14,400 1,487 1,438 1,487 1,438
14,400 14,450 1,493 1,443 1,493 1,443
14,450 14,500 1,499 1,448 1,499 1,448
14,500 14,550 1,505 1,453 1,505 1,453
14,550 14,600 1,511 1,458 1,511 1,458
14,600 14,650 1,517 1,463 1,517 1,463
14,650 14,700 1,523 1,468 1,523 1,468
14,700 14,750 1,529 1,473 1,529 1,473
14,750 14,800 1,535 1,478 1,535 1,478
14,800 14,850 1,541 1,483 1,541 1,483
14,850 14,900 1,547 1,488 1,547 1,488
14,900 14,950 1,553 1,493 1,553 1,493
14,950 15,000 1,559 1,498 1,559 1,498
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
15,000
15,000 15,050 1,565 1,503 1,565 1,503
15,050 15,100 1,571 1,508 1,571 1,508
15,100 15,150 1,577 1,513 1,577 1,513
15,150 15,200 1,583 1,518 1,583 1,518
15,200 15,250 1,589 1,523 1,589 1,523
15,250 15,300 1,595 1,528 1,595 1,528
15,300 15,350 1,601 1,533 1,601 1,533
15,350 15,400 1,607 1,538 1,607 1,538
15,400 15,450 1,613 1,543 1,613 1,543
15,450 15,500 1,619 1,548 1,619 1,548
15,500 15,550 1,625 1,553 1,625 1,553
15,550 15,600 1,631 1,558 1,631 1,558
15,600 15,650 1,637 1,563 1,637 1,563
15,650 15,700 1,643 1,568 1,643 1,568
15,700 15,750 1,649 1,573 1,649 1,573
15,750 15,800 1,655 1,578 1,655 1,578
15,800 15,850 1,661 1,583 1,661 1,583
15,850 15,900 1,667 1,588 1,667 1,588
15,900 15,950 1,673 1,593 1,673 1,593
15,950 16,000 1,679 1,598 1,679 1,598
16,000
16,000 16,050 1,685 1,603 1,685 1,603
16,050 16,100 1,691 1,608 1,691 1,608
16,100 16,150 1,697 1,613 1,697 1,613
16,150 16,200 1,703 1,618 1,703 1,618
16,200 16,250 1,709 1,623 1,709 1,623
16,250 16,300 1,715 1,628 1,715 1,628
16,300 16,350 1,721 1,633 1,721 1,633
16,350 16,400 1,727 1,638 1,727 1,638
16,400 16,450 1,733 1,643 1,733 1,643
16,450 16,500 1,739 1,648 1,739 1,648
16,500 16,550 1,745 1,653 1,745 1,653
16,550 16,600 1,751 1,658 1,751 1,658
16,600 16,650 1,757 1,663 1,757 1,663
16,650 16,700 1,763 1,668 1,763 1,668
16,700 16,750 1,769 1,673 1,769 1,673
16,750 16,800 1,775 1,678 1,775 1,678
16,800 16,850 1,781 1,683 1,781 1,683
16,850 16,900 1,787 1,688 1,787 1,688
16,900 16,950 1,793 1,693 1,793 1,693
16,950 17,000 1,799 1,698 1,799 1,698
17,000
17,000 17,050 1,805 1,703 1,805 1,703
17,050 17,100 1,811 1,708 1,811 1,709
17,100 17,150 1,817 1,713 1,817 1,715
17,150 17,200 1,823 1,718 1,823 1,721
17,200 17,250 1,829 1,723 1,829 1,727
17,250 17,300 1,835 1,728 1,835 1,733
17,300 17,350 1,841 1,733 1,841 1,739
17,350 17,400 1,847 1,738 1,847 1,745
17,400 17,450 1,853 1,743 1,853 1,751
17,450 17,500 1,859 1,748 1,859 1,757
17,500 17,550 1,865 1,753 1,865 1,763
17,550 17,600 1,871 1,758 1,871 1,769
17,600 17,650 1,877 1,763 1,877 1,775
17,650 17,700 1,883 1,768 1,883 1,781
17,700 17,750 1,889 1,773 1,889 1,787
17,750 17,800 1,895 1,778 1,895 1,793
17,800 17,850 1,901 1,783 1,901 1,799
17,850 17,900 1,907 1,788 1,907 1,805
17,900 17,950 1,913 1,793 1,913 1,811
17,950 18,000 1,919 1,798 1,919 1,817
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
18,000
18,000 18,050 1,925 1,803 1,925 1,823
18,050 18,100 1,931 1,808 1,931 1,829
18,100 18,150 1,937 1,813 1,937 1,835
18,150 18,200 1,943 1,818 1,943 1,841
18,200 18,250 1,949 1,823 1,949 1,847
18,250 18,300 1,955 1,828 1,955 1,853
18,300 18,350 1,961 1,833 1,961 1,859
18,350 18,400 1,967 1,838 1,967 1,865
18,400 18,450 1,973 1,843 1,973 1,871
18,450 18,500 1,979 1,848 1,979 1,877
18,500 18,550 1,985 1,853 1,985 1,883
18,550 18,600 1,991 1,858 1,991 1,889
18,600 18,650 1,997 1,863 1,997 1,895
18,650 18,700 2,003 1,868 2,003 1,901
18,700 18,750 2,009 1,873 2,009 1,907
18,750 18,800 2,015 1,878 2,015 1,913
18,800 18,850 2,021 1,883 2,021 1,919
18,850 18,900 2,027 1,888 2,027 1,925
18,900 18,950 2,033 1,893 2,033 1,931
18,950 19,000 2,039 1,898 2,039 1,937
19,000
19,000 19,050 2,045 1,903 2,045 1,943
19,050 19,100 2,051 1,908 2,051 1,949
19,100 19,150 2,057 1,913 2,057 1,955
19,150 19,200 2,063 1,918 2,063 1,961
19,200 19,250 2,069 1,923 2,069 1,967
19,250 19,300 2,075 1,928 2,075 1,973
19,300 19,350 2,081 1,933 2,081 1,979
19,350 19,400 2,087 1,938 2,087 1,985
19,400 19,450 2,093 1,943 2,093 1,991
19,450 19,500 2,099 1,948 2,099 1,997
19,500 19,550 2,105 1,953 2,105 2,003
19,550 19,600 2,111 1,958 2,111 2,009
19,600 19,650 2,117 1,963 2,117 2,015
19,650 19,700 2,123 1,968 2,123 2,021
19,700 19,750 2,129 1,973 2,129 2,027
19,750 19,800 2,135 1,978 2,135 2,033
19,800 19,850 2,141 1,983 2,141 2,039
19,850 19,900 2,147 1,988 2,147 2,045
19,900 19,950 2,153 1,993 2,153 2,051
19,950 20,000 2,159 1,998 2,159 2,057
20,000
20,000 20,050 2,165 2,003 2,165 2,063
20,050 20,100 2,171 2,008 2,171 2,069
20,100 20,150 2,177 2,013 2,177 2,075
20,150 20,200 2,183 2,018 2,183 2,081
20,200 20,250 2,189 2,023 2,189 2,087
20,250 20,300 2,195 2,028 2,195 2,093
20,300 20,350 2,201 2,033 2,201 2,099
20,350 20,400 2,207 2,038 2,207 2,105
20,400 20,450 2,213 2,043 2,213 2,111
20,450 20,500 2,219 2,048 2,219 2,117
20,500 20,550 2,225 2,053 2,225 2,123
20,550 20,600 2,231 2,058 2,231 2,129
20,600 20,650 2,237 2,063 2,237 2,135
20,650 20,700 2,243 2,068 2,243 2,141
20,700 20,750 2,249 2,073 2,249 2,147
20,750 20,800 2,255 2,078 2,255 2,153
20,800 20,850 2,261 2,083 2,261 2,159
20,850 20,900 2,267 2,088 2,267 2,165
20,900 20,950 2,273 2,093 2,273 2,171
20,950 21,000 2,279 2,098 2,279 2,177
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Publication 17 (2025) 113

[PAGE 116]
Page 116 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
21,000
21,000 21,050 2,285 2,103 2,285 2,183
21,050 21,100 2,291 2,108 2,291 2,189
21,100 21,150 2,297 2,113 2,297 2,195
21,150 21,200 2,303 2,118 2,303 2,201
21,200 21,250 2,309 2,123 2,309 2,207
21,250 21,300 2,315 2,128 2,315 2,213
21,300 21,350 2,321 2,133 2,321 2,219
21,350 21,400 2,327 2,138 2,327 2,225
21,400 21,450 2,333 2,143 2,333 2,231
21,450 21,500 2,339 2,148 2,339 2,237
21,500 21,550 2,345 2,153 2,345 2,243
21,550 21,600 2,351 2,158 2,351 2,249
21,600 21,650 2,357 2,163 2,357 2,255
21,650 21,700 2,363 2,168 2,363 2,261
21,700 21,750 2,369 2,173 2,369 2,267
21,750 21,800 2,375 2,178 2,375 2,273
21,800 21,850 2,381 2,183 2,381 2,279
21,850 21,900 2,387 2,188 2,387 2,285
21,900 21,950 2,393 2,193 2,393 2,291
21,950 22,000 2,399 2,198 2,399 2,297
22,000
22,000 22,050 2,405 2,203 2,405 2,303
22,050 22,100 2,411 2,208 2,411 2,309
22,100 22,150 2,417 2,213 2,417 2,315
22,150 22,200 2,423 2,218 2,423 2,321
22,200 22,250 2,429 2,223 2,429 2,327
22,250 22,300 2,435 2,228 2,435 2,333
22,300 22,350 2,441 2,233 2,441 2,339
22,350 22,400 2,447 2,238 2,447 2,345
22,400 22,450 2,453 2,243 2,453 2,351
22,450 22,500 2,459 2,248 2,459 2,357
22,500 22,550 2,465 2,253 2,465 2,363
22,550 22,600 2,471 2,258 2,471 2,369
22,600 22,650 2,477 2,263 2,477 2,375
22,650 22,700 2,483 2,268 2,483 2,381
22,700 22,750 2,489 2,273 2,489 2,387
22,750 22,800 2,495 2,278 2,495 2,393
22,800 22,850 2,501 2,283 2,501 2,399
22,850 22,900 2,507 2,288 2,507 2,405
22,900 22,950 2,513 2,293 2,513 2,411
22,950 23,000 2,519 2,298 2,519 2,417
23,000
23,000 23,050 2,525 2,303 2,525 2,423
23,050 23,100 2,531 2,308 2,531 2,429
23,100 23,150 2,537 2,313 2,537 2,435
23,150 23,200 2,543 2,318 2,543 2,441
23,200 23,250 2,549 2,323 2,549 2,447
23,250 23,300 2,555 2,328 2,555 2,453
23,300 23,350 2,561 2,333 2,561 2,459
23,350 23,400 2,567 2,338 2,567 2,465
23,400 23,450 2,573 2,343 2,573 2,471
23,450 23,500 2,579 2,348 2,579 2,477
23,500 23,550 2,585 2,353 2,585 2,483
23,550 23,600 2,591 2,358 2,591 2,489
23,600 23,650 2,597 2,363 2,597 2,495
23,650 23,700 2,603 2,368 2,603 2,501
23,700 23,750 2,609 2,373 2,609 2,507
23,750 23,800 2,615 2,378 2,615 2,513
23,800 23,850 2,621 2,383 2,621 2,519
23,850 23,900 2,627 2,388 2,627 2,525
23,900 23,950 2,633 2,394 2,633 2,531
23,950 24,000 2,639 2,400 2,639 2,537
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
24,000
24,000 24,050 2,645 2,406 2,645 2,543
24,050 24,100 2,651 2,412 2,651 2,549
24,100 24,150 2,657 2,418 2,657 2,555
24,150 24,200 2,663 2,424 2,663 2,561
24,200 24,250 2,669 2,430 2,669 2,567
24,250 24,300 2,675 2,436 2,675 2,573
24,300 24,350 2,681 2,442 2,681 2,579
24,350 24,400 2,687 2,448 2,687 2,585
24,400 24,450 2,693 2,454 2,693 2,591
24,450 24,500 2,699 2,460 2,699 2,597
24,500 24,550 2,705 2,466 2,705 2,603
24,550 24,600 2,711 2,472 2,711 2,609
24,600 24,650 2,717 2,478 2,717 2,615
24,650 24,700 2,723 2,484 2,723 2,621
24,700 24,750 2,729 2,490 2,729 2,627
24,750 24,800 2,735 2,496 2,735 2,633
24,800 24,850 2,741 2,502 2,741 2,639
24,850 24,900 2,747 2,508 2,747 2,645
24,900 24,950 2,753 2,514 2,753 2,651
24,950 25,000 2,759 2,520 2,759 2,657
25,000
25,000 25,050 2,765 2,526 2,765 2,663
25,050 25,100 2,771 2,532 2,771 2,669
25,100 25,150 2,777 2,538 2,777 2,675
25,150 25,200 2,783 2,544 2,783 2,681
25,200 25,250 2,789 2,550 2,789 2,687
25,250 25,300 2,795 2,556 2,795 2,693
25,300 25,350 2,801 2,562 2,801 2,699
25,350 25,400 2,807 2,568 2,807 2,705
25,400 25,450 2,813 2,574 2,813 2,711
25,450 25,500 2,819 2,580 2,819 2,717
25,500 25,550 2,825 2,586 2,825 2,723
25,550 25,600 2,831 2,592 2,831 2,729
25,600 25,650 2,837 2,598 2,837 2,735
25,650 25,700 2,843 2,604 2,843 2,741
25,700 25,750 2,849 2,610 2,849 2,747
25,750 25,800 2,855 2,616 2,855 2,753
25,800 25,850 2,861 2,622 2,861 2,759
25,850 25,900 2,867 2,628 2,867 2,765
25,900 25,950 2,873 2,634 2,873 2,771
25,950 26,000 2,879 2,640 2,879 2,777
26,000
26,000 26,050 2,885 2,646 2,885 2,783
26,050 26,100 2,891 2,652 2,891 2,789
26,100 26,150 2,897 2,658 2,897 2,795
26,150 26,200 2,903 2,664 2,903 2,801
26,200 26,250 2,909 2,670 2,909 2,807
26,250 26,300 2,915 2,676 2,915 2,813
26,300 26,350 2,921 2,682 2,921 2,819
26,350 26,400 2,927 2,688 2,927 2,825
26,400 26,450 2,933 2,694 2,933 2,831
26,450 26,500 2,939 2,700 2,939 2,837
26,500 26,550 2,945 2,706 2,945 2,843
26,550 26,600 2,951 2,712 2,951 2,849
26,600 26,650 2,957 2,718 2,957 2,855
26,650 26,700 2,963 2,724 2,963 2,861
26,700 26,750 2,969 2,730 2,969 2,867
26,750 26,800 2,975 2,736 2,975 2,873
26,800 26,850 2,981 2,742 2,981 2,879
26,850 26,900 2,987 2,748 2,987 2,885
26,900 26,950 2,993 2,754 2,993 2,891
26,950 27,000 2,999 2,760 2,999 2,897
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
27,000
27,000 27,050 3,005 2,766 3,005 2,903
27,050 27,100 3,011 2,772 3,011 2,909
27,100 27,150 3,017 2,778 3,017 2,915
27,150 27,200 3,023 2,784 3,023 2,921
27,200 27,250 3,029 2,790 3,029 2,927
27,250 27,300 3,035 2,796 3,035 2,933
27,300 27,350 3,041 2,802 3,041 2,939
27,350 27,400 3,047 2,808 3,047 2,945
27,400 27,450 3,053 2,814 3,053 2,951
27,450 27,500 3,059 2,820 3,059 2,957
27,500 27,550 3,065 2,826 3,065 2,963
27,550 27,600 3,071 2,832 3,071 2,969
27,600 27,650 3,077 2,838 3,077 2,975
27,650 27,700 3,083 2,844 3,083 2,981
27,700 27,750 3,089 2,850 3,089 2,987
27,750 27,800 3,095 2,856 3,095 2,993
27,800 27,850 3,101 2,862 3,101 2,999
27,850 27,900 3,107 2,868 3,107 3,005
27,900 27,950 3,113 2,874 3,113 3,011
27,950 28,000 3,119 2,880 3,119 3,017
28,000
28,000 28,050 3,125 2,886 3,125 3,023
28,050 28,100 3,131 2,892 3,131 3,029
28,100 28,150 3,137 2,898 3,137 3,035
28,150 28,200 3,143 2,904 3,143 3,041
28,200 28,250 3,149 2,910 3,149 3,047
28,250 28,300 3,155 2,916 3,155 3,053
28,300 28,350 3,161 2,922 3,161 3,059
28,350 28,400 3,167 2,928 3,167 3,065
28,400 28,450 3,173 2,934 3,173 3,071
28,450 28,500 3,179 2,940 3,179 3,077
28,500 28,550 3,185 2,946 3,185 3,083
28,550 28,600 3,191 2,952 3,191 3,089
28,600 28,650 3,197 2,958 3,197 3,095
28,650 28,700 3,203 2,964 3,203 3,101
28,700 28,750 3,209 2,970 3,209 3,107
28,750 28,800 3,215 2,976 3,215 3,113
28,800 28,850 3,221 2,982 3,221 3,119
28,850 28,900 3,227 2,988 3,227 3,125
28,900 28,950 3,233 2,994 3,233 3,131
28,950 29,000 3,239 3,000 3,239 3,137
29,000
29,000 29,050 3,245 3,006 3,245 3,143
29,050 29,100 3,251 3,012 3,251 3,149
29,100 29,150 3,257 3,018 3,257 3,155
29,150 29,200 3,263 3,024 3,263 3,161
29,200 29,250 3,269 3,030 3,269 3,167
29,250 29,300 3,275 3,036 3,275 3,173
29,300 29,350 3,281 3,042 3,281 3,179
29,350 29,400 3,287 3,048 3,287 3,185
29,400 29,450 3,293 3,054 3,293 3,191
29,450 29,500 3,299 3,060 3,299 3,197
29,500 29,550 3,305 3,066 3,305 3,203
29,550 29,600 3,311 3,072 3,311 3,209
29,600 29,650 3,317 3,078 3,317 3,215
29,650 29,700 3,323 3,084 3,323 3,221
29,700 29,750 3,329 3,090 3,329 3,227
29,750 29,800 3,335 3,096 3,335 3,233
29,800 29,850 3,341 3,102 3,341 3,239
29,850 29,900 3,347 3,108 3,347 3,245
29,900 29,950 3,353 3,114 3,353 3,251
29,950 30,000 3,359 3,120 3,359 3,257
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
114 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 117]
Page 117 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
30,000
30,000 30,050 3,365 3,126 3,365 3,263
30,050 30,100 3,371 3,132 3,371 3,269
30,100 30,150 3,377 3,138 3,377 3,275
30,150 30,200 3,383 3,144 3,383 3,281
30,200 30,250 3,389 3,150 3,389 3,287
30,250 30,300 3,395 3,156 3,395 3,293
30,300 30,350 3,401 3,162 3,401 3,299
30,350 30,400 3,407 3,168 3,407 3,305
30,400 30,450 3,413 3,174 3,413 3,311
30,450 30,500 3,419 3,180 3,419 3,317
30,500 30,550 3,425 3,186 3,425 3,323
30,550 30,600 3,431 3,192 3,431 3,329
30,600 30,650 3,437 3,198 3,437 3,335
30,650 30,700 3,443 3,204 3,443 3,341
30,700 30,750 3,449 3,210 3,449 3,347
30,750 30,800 3,455 3,216 3,455 3,353
30,800 30,850 3,461 3,222 3,461 3,359
30,850 30,900 3,467 3,228 3,467 3,365
30,900 30,950 3,473 3,234 3,473 3,371
30,950 31,000 3,479 3,240 3,479 3,377
31,000
31,000 31,050 3,485 3,246 3,485 3,383
31,050 31,100 3,491 3,252 3,491 3,389
31,100 31,150 3,497 3,258 3,497 3,395
31,150 31,200 3,503 3,264 3,503 3,401
31,200 31,250 3,509 3,270 3,509 3,407
31,250 31,300 3,515 3,276 3,515 3,413
31,300 31,350 3,521 3,282 3,521 3,419
31,350 31,400 3,527 3,288 3,527 3,425
31,400 31,450 3,533 3,294 3,533 3,431
31,450 31,500 3,539 3,300 3,539 3,437
31,500 31,550 3,545 3,306 3,545 3,443
31,550 31,600 3,551 3,312 3,551 3,449
31,600 31,650 3,557 3,318 3,557 3,455
31,650 31,700 3,563 3,324 3,563 3,461
31,700 31,750 3,569 3,330 3,569 3,467
31,750 31,800 3,575 3,336 3,575 3,473
31,800 31,850 3,581 3,342 3,581 3,479
31,850 31,900 3,587 3,348 3,587 3,485
31,900 31,950 3,593 3,354 3,593 3,491
31,950 32,000 3,599 3,360 3,599 3,497
32,000
32,000 32,050 3,605 3,366 3,605 3,503
32,050 32,100 3,611 3,372 3,611 3,509
32,100 32,150 3,617 3,378 3,617 3,515
32,150 32,200 3,623 3,384 3,623 3,521
32,200 32,250 3,629 3,390 3,629 3,527
32,250 32,300 3,635 3,396 3,635 3,533
32,300 32,350 3,641 3,402 3,641 3,539
32,350 32,400 3,647 3,408 3,647 3,545
32,400 32,450 3,653 3,414 3,653 3,551
32,450 32,500 3,659 3,420 3,659 3,557
32,500 32,550 3,665 3,426 3,665 3,563
32,550 32,600 3,671 3,432 3,671 3,569
32,600 32,650 3,677 3,438 3,677 3,575
32,650 32,700 3,683 3,444 3,683 3,581
32,700 32,750 3,689 3,450 3,689 3,587
32,750 32,800 3,695 3,456 3,695 3,593
32,800 32,850 3,701 3,462 3,701 3,599
32,850 32,900 3,707 3,468 3,707 3,605
32,900 32,950 3,713 3,474 3,713 3,611
32,950 33,000 3,719 3,480 3,719 3,617
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
33,000
33,000 33,050 3,725 3,486 3,725 3,623
33,050 33,100 3,731 3,492 3,731 3,629
33,100 33,150 3,737 3,498 3,737 3,635
33,150 33,200 3,743 3,504 3,743 3,641
33,200 33,250 3,749 3,510 3,749 3,647
33,250 33,300 3,755 3,516 3,755 3,653
33,300 33,350 3,761 3,522 3,761 3,659
33,350 33,400 3,767 3,528 3,767 3,665
33,400 33,450 3,773 3,534 3,773 3,671
33,450 33,500 3,779 3,540 3,779 3,677
33,500 33,550 3,785 3,546 3,785 3,683
33,550 33,600 3,791 3,552 3,791 3,689
33,600 33,650 3,797 3,558 3,797 3,695
33,650 33,700 3,803 3,564 3,803 3,701
33,700 33,750 3,809 3,570 3,809 3,707
33,750 33,800 3,815 3,576 3,815 3,713
33,800 33,850 3,821 3,582 3,821 3,719
33,850 33,900 3,827 3,588 3,827 3,725
33,900 33,950 3,833 3,594 3,833 3,731
33,950 34,000 3,839 3,600 3,839 3,737
34,000
34,000 34,050 3,845 3,606 3,845 3,743
34,050 34,100 3,851 3,612 3,851 3,749
34,100 34,150 3,857 3,618 3,857 3,755
34,150 34,200 3,863 3,624 3,863 3,761
34,200 34,250 3,869 3,630 3,869 3,767
34,250 34,300 3,875 3,636 3,875 3,773
34,300 34,350 3,881 3,642 3,881 3,779
34,350 34,400 3,887 3,648 3,887 3,785
34,400 34,450 3,893 3,654 3,893 3,791
34,450 34,500 3,899 3,660 3,899 3,797
34,500 34,550 3,905 3,666 3,905 3,803
34,550 34,600 3,911 3,672 3,911 3,809
34,600 34,650 3,917 3,678 3,917 3,815
34,650 34,700 3,923 3,684 3,923 3,821
34,700 34,750 3,929 3,690 3,929 3,827
34,750 34,800 3,935 3,696 3,935 3,833
34,800 34,850 3,941 3,702 3,941 3,839
34,850 34,900 3,947 3,708 3,947 3,845
34,900 34,950 3,953 3,714 3,953 3,851
34,950 35,000 3,959 3,720 3,959 3,857
35,000
35,000 35,050 3,965 3,726 3,965 3,863
35,050 35,100 3,971 3,732 3,971 3,869
35,100 35,150 3,977 3,738 3,977 3,875
35,150 35,200 3,983 3,744 3,983 3,881
35,200 35,250 3,989 3,750 3,989 3,887
35,250 35,300 3,995 3,756 3,995 3,893
35,300 35,350 4,001 3,762 4,001 3,899
35,350 35,400 4,007 3,768 4,007 3,905
35,400 35,450 4,013 3,774 4,013 3,911
35,450 35,500 4,019 3,780 4,019 3,917
35,500 35,550 4,025 3,786 4,025 3,923
35,550 35,600 4,031 3,792 4,031 3,929
35,600 35,650 4,037 3,798 4,037 3,935
35,650 35,700 4,043 3,804 4,043 3,941
35,700 35,750 4,049 3,810 4,049 3,947
35,750 35,800 4,055 3,816 4,055 3,953
35,800 35,850 4,061 3,822 4,061 3,959
35,850 35,900 4,067 3,828 4,067 3,965
35,900 35,950 4,073 3,834 4,073 3,971
35,950 36,000 4,079 3,840 4,079 3,977
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
36,000
36,000 36,050 4,085 3,846 4,085 3,983
36,050 36,100 4,091 3,852 4,091 3,989
36,100 36,150 4,097 3,858 4,097 3,995
36,150 36,200 4,103 3,864 4,103 4,001
36,200 36,250 4,109 3,870 4,109 4,007
36,250 36,300 4,115 3,876 4,115 4,013
36,300 36,350 4,121 3,882 4,121 4,019
36,350 36,400 4,127 3,888 4,127 4,025
36,400 36,450 4,133 3,894 4,133 4,031
36,450 36,500 4,139 3,900 4,139 4,037
36,500 36,550 4,145 3,906 4,145 4,043
36,550 36,600 4,151 3,912 4,151 4,049
36,600 36,650 4,157 3,918 4,157 4,055
36,650 36,700 4,163 3,924 4,163 4,061
36,700 36,750 4,169 3,930 4,169 4,067
36,750 36,800 4,175 3,936 4,175 4,073
36,800 36,850 4,181 3,942 4,181 4,079
36,850 36,900 4,187 3,948 4,187 4,085
36,900 36,950 4,193 3,954 4,193 4,091
36,950 37,000 4,199 3,960 4,199 4,097
37,000
37,000 37,050 4,205 3,966 4,205 4,103
37,050 37,100 4,211 3,972 4,211 4,109
37,100 37,150 4,217 3,978 4,217 4,115
37,150 37,200 4,223 3,984 4,223 4,121
37,200 37,250 4,229 3,990 4,229 4,127
37,250 37,300 4,235 3,996 4,235 4,133
37,300 37,350 4,241 4,002 4,241 4,139
37,350 37,400 4,247 4,008 4,247 4,145
37,400 37,450 4,253 4,014 4,253 4,151
37,450 37,500 4,259 4,020 4,259 4,157
37,500 37,550 4,265 4,026 4,265 4,163
37,550 37,600 4,271 4,032 4,271 4,169
37,600 37,650 4,277 4,038 4,277 4,175
37,650 37,700 4,283 4,044 4,283 4,181
37,700 37,750 4,289 4,050 4,289 4,187
37,750 37,800 4,295 4,056 4,295 4,193
37,800 37,850 4,301 4,062 4,301 4,199
37,850 37,900 4,307 4,068 4,307 4,205
37,900 37,950 4,313 4,074 4,313 4,211
37,950 38,000 4,319 4,080 4,319 4,217
38,000
38,000 38,050 4,325 4,086 4,325 4,223
38,050 38,100 4,331 4,092 4,331 4,229
38,100 38,150 4,337 4,098 4,337 4,235
38,150 38,200 4,343 4,104 4,343 4,241
38,200 38,250 4,349 4,110 4,349 4,247
38,250 38,300 4,355 4,116 4,355 4,253
38,300 38,350 4,361 4,122 4,361 4,259
38,350 38,400 4,367 4,128 4,367 4,265
38,400 38,450 4,373 4,134 4,373 4,271
38,450 38,500 4,379 4,140 4,379 4,277
38,500 38,550 4,385 4,146 4,385 4,283
38,550 38,600 4,391 4,152 4,391 4,289
38,600 38,650 4,397 4,158 4,397 4,295
38,650 38,700 4,403 4,164 4,403 4,301
38,700 38,750 4,409 4,170 4,409 4,307
38,750 38,800 4,415 4,176 4,415 4,313
38,800 38,850 4,421 4,182 4,421 4,319
38,850 38,900 4,427 4,188 4,427 4,325
38,900 38,950 4,433 4,194 4,433 4,331
38,950 39,000 4,439 4,200 4,439 4,337
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Publication 17 (2025) 115

[PAGE 118]
Page 118 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
39,000
39,000 39,050 4,445 4,206 4,445 4,343
39,050 39,100 4,451 4,212 4,451 4,349
39,100 39,150 4,457 4,218 4,457 4,355
39,150 39,200 4,463 4,224 4,463 4,361
39,200 39,250 4,469 4,230 4,469 4,367
39,250 39,300 4,475 4,236 4,475 4,373
39,300 39,350 4,481 4,242 4,481 4,379
39,350 39,400 4,487 4,248 4,487 4,385
39,400 39,450 4,493 4,254 4,493 4,391
39,450 39,500 4,499 4,260 4,499 4,397
39,500 39,550 4,505 4,266 4,505 4,403
39,550 39,600 4,511 4,272 4,511 4,409
39,600 39,650 4,517 4,278 4,517 4,415
39,650 39,700 4,523 4,284 4,523 4,421
39,700 39,750 4,529 4,290 4,529 4,427
39,750 39,800 4,535 4,296 4,535 4,433
39,800 39,850 4,541 4,302 4,541 4,439
39,850 39,900 4,547 4,308 4,547 4,445
39,900 39,950 4,553 4,314 4,553 4,451
39,950 40,000 4,559 4,320 4,559 4,457
40,000
40,000 40,050 4,565 4,326 4,565 4,463
40,050 40,100 4,571 4,332 4,571 4,469
40,100 40,150 4,577 4,338 4,577 4,475
40,150 40,200 4,583 4,344 4,583 4,481
40,200 40,250 4,589 4,350 4,589 4,487
40,250 40,300 4,595 4,356 4,595 4,493
40,300 40,350 4,601 4,362 4,601 4,499
40,350 40,400 4,607 4,368 4,607 4,505
40,400 40,450 4,613 4,374 4,613 4,511
40,450 40,500 4,619 4,380 4,619 4,517
40,500 40,550 4,625 4,386 4,625 4,523
40,550 40,600 4,631 4,392 4,631 4,529
40,600 40,650 4,637 4,398 4,637 4,535
40,650 40,700 4,643 4,404 4,643 4,541
40,700 40,750 4,649 4,410 4,649 4,547
40,750 40,800 4,655 4,416 4,655 4,553
40,800 40,850 4,661 4,422 4,661 4,559
40,850 40,900 4,667 4,428 4,667 4,565
40,900 40,950 4,673 4,434 4,673 4,571
40,950 41,000 4,679 4,440 4,679 4,577
41,000
41,000 41,050 4,685 4,446 4,685 4,583
41,050 41,100 4,691 4,452 4,691 4,589
41,100 41,150 4,697 4,458 4,697 4,595
41,150 41,200 4,703 4,464 4,703 4,601
41,200 41,250 4,709 4,470 4,709 4,607
41,250 41,300 4,715 4,476 4,715 4,613
41,300 41,350 4,721 4,482 4,721 4,619
41,350 41,400 4,727 4,488 4,727 4,625
41,400 41,450 4,733 4,494 4,733 4,631
41,450 41,500 4,739 4,500 4,739 4,637
41,500 41,550 4,745 4,506 4,745 4,643
41,550 41,600 4,751 4,512 4,751 4,649
41,600 41,650 4,757 4,518 4,757 4,655
41,650 41,700 4,763 4,524 4,763 4,661
41,700 41,750 4,769 4,530 4,769 4,667
41,750 41,800 4,775 4,536 4,775 4,673
41,800 41,850 4,781 4,542 4,781 4,679
41,850 41,900 4,787 4,548 4,787 4,685
41,900 41,950 4,793 4,554 4,793 4,691
41,950 42,000 4,799 4,560 4,799 4,697
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
42,000
42,000 42,050 4,805 4,566 4,805 4,703
42,050 42,100 4,811 4,572 4,811 4,709
42,100 42,150 4,817 4,578 4,817 4,715
42,150 42,200 4,823 4,584 4,823 4,721
42,200 42,250 4,829 4,590 4,829 4,727
42,250 42,300 4,835 4,596 4,835 4,733
42,300 42,350 4,841 4,602 4,841 4,739
42,350 42,400 4,847 4,608 4,847 4,745
42,400 42,450 4,853 4,614 4,853 4,751
42,450 42,500 4,859 4,620 4,859 4,757
42,500 42,550 4,865 4,626 4,865 4,763
42,550 42,600 4,871 4,632 4,871 4,769
42,600 42,650 4,877 4,638 4,877 4,775
42,650 42,700 4,883 4,644 4,883 4,781
42,700 42,750 4,889 4,650 4,889 4,787
42,750 42,800 4,895 4,656 4,895 4,793
42,800 42,850 4,901 4,662 4,901 4,799
42,850 42,900 4,907 4,668 4,907 4,805
42,900 42,950 4,913 4,674 4,913 4,811
42,950 43,000 4,919 4,680 4,919 4,817
43,000
43,000 43,050 4,925 4,686 4,925 4,823
43,050 43,100 4,931 4,692 4,931 4,829
43,100 43,150 4,937 4,698 4,937 4,835
43,150 43,200 4,943 4,704 4,943 4,841
43,200 43,250 4,949 4,710 4,949 4,847
43,250 43,300 4,955 4,716 4,955 4,853
43,300 43,350 4,961 4,722 4,961 4,859
43,350 43,400 4,967 4,728 4,967 4,865
43,400 43,450 4,973 4,734 4,973 4,871
43,450 43,500 4,979 4,740 4,979 4,877
43,500 43,550 4,985 4,746 4,985 4,883
43,550 43,600 4,991 4,752 4,991 4,889
43,600 43,650 4,997 4,758 4,997 4,895
43,650 43,700 5,003 4,764 5,003 4,901
43,700 43,750 5,009 4,770 5,009 4,907
43,750 43,800 5,015 4,776 5,015 4,913
43,800 43,850 5,021 4,782 5,021 4,919
43,850 43,900 5,027 4,788 5,027 4,925
43,900 43,950 5,033 4,794 5,033 4,931
43,950 44,000 5,039 4,800 5,039 4,937
44,000
44,000 44,050 5,045 4,806 5,045 4,943
44,050 44,100 5,051 4,812 5,051 4,949
44,100 44,150 5,057 4,818 5,057 4,955
44,150 44,200 5,063 4,824 5,063 4,961
44,200 44,250 5,069 4,830 5,069 4,967
44,250 44,300 5,075 4,836 5,075 4,973
44,300 44,350 5,081 4,842 5,081 4,979
44,350 44,400 5,087 4,848 5,087 4,985
44,400 44,450 5,093 4,854 5,093 4,991
44,450 44,500 5,099 4,860 5,099 4,997
44,500 44,550 5,105 4,866 5,105 5,003
44,550 44,600 5,111 4,872 5,111 5,009
44,600 44,650 5,117 4,878 5,117 5,015
44,650 44,700 5,123 4,884 5,123 5,021
44,700 44,750 5,129 4,890 5,129 5,027
44,750 44,800 5,135 4,896 5,135 5,033
44,800 44,850 5,141 4,902 5,141 5,039
44,850 44,900 5,147 4,908 5,147 5,045
44,900 44,950 5,153 4,914 5,153 5,051
44,950 45,000 5,159 4,920 5,159 5,057
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
45,000
45,000 45,050 5,165 4,926 5,165 5,063
45,050 45,100 5,171 4,932 5,171 5,069
45,100 45,150 5,177 4,938 5,177 5,075
45,150 45,200 5,183 4,944 5,183 5,081
45,200 45,250 5,189 4,950 5,189 5,087
45,250 45,300 5,195 4,956 5,195 5,093
45,300 45,350 5,201 4,962 5,201 5,099
45,350 45,400 5,207 4,968 5,207 5,105
45,400 45,450 5,213 4,974 5,213 5,111
45,450 45,500 5,219 4,980 5,219 5,117
45,500 45,550 5,225 4,986 5,225 5,123
45,550 45,600 5,231 4,992 5,231 5,129
45,600 45,650 5,237 4,998 5,237 5,135
45,650 45,700 5,243 5,004 5,243 5,141
45,700 45,750 5,249 5,010 5,249 5,147
45,750 45,800 5,255 5,016 5,255 5,153
45,800 45,850 5,261 5,022 5,261 5,159
45,850 45,900 5,267 5,028 5,267 5,165
45,900 45,950 5,273 5,034 5,273 5,171
45,950 46,000 5,279 5,040 5,279 5,177
46,000
46,000 46,050 5,285 5,046 5,285 5,183
46,050 46,100 5,291 5,052 5,291 5,189
46,100 46,150 5,297 5,058 5,297 5,195
46,150 46,200 5,303 5,064 5,303 5,201
46,200 46,250 5,309 5,070 5,309 5,207
46,250 46,300 5,315 5,076 5,315 5,213
46,300 46,350 5,321 5,082 5,321 5,219
46,350 46,400 5,327 5,088 5,327 5,225
46,400 46,450 5,333 5,094 5,333 5,231
46,450 46,500 5,339 5,100 5,339 5,237
46,500 46,550 5,345 5,106 5,345 5,243
46,550 46,600 5,351 5,112 5,351 5,249
46,600 46,650 5,357 5,118 5,357 5,255
46,650 46,700 5,363 5,124 5,363 5,261
46,700 46,750 5,369 5,130 5,369 5,267
46,750 46,800 5,375 5,136 5,375 5,273
46,800 46,850 5,381 5,142 5,381 5,279
46,850 46,900 5,387 5,148 5,387 5,285
46,900 46,950 5,393 5,154 5,393 5,291
46,950 47,000 5,399 5,160 5,399 5,297
47,000
47,000 47,050 5,405 5,166 5,405 5,303
47,050 47,100 5,411 5,172 5,411 5,309
47,100 47,150 5,417 5,178 5,417 5,315
47,150 47,200 5,423 5,184 5,423 5,321
47,200 47,250 5,429 5,190 5,429 5,327
47,250 47,300 5,435 5,196 5,435 5,333
47,300 47,350 5,441 5,202 5,441 5,339
47,350 47,400 5,447 5,208 5,447 5,345
47,400 47,450 5,453 5,214 5,453 5,351
47,450 47,500 5,459 5,220 5,459 5,357
47,500 47,550 5,465 5,226 5,465 5,363
47,550 47,600 5,471 5,232 5,471 5,369
47,600 47,650 5,477 5,238 5,477 5,375
47,650 47,700 5,483 5,244 5,483 5,381
47,700 47,750 5,489 5,250 5,489 5,387
47,750 47,800 5,495 5,256 5,495 5,393
47,800 47,850 5,501 5,262 5,501 5,399
47,850 47,900 5,507 5,268 5,507 5,405
47,900 47,950 5,513 5,274 5,513 5,411
47,950 48,000 5,519 5,280 5,519 5,417
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
116 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 119]
Page 119 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
48,000
48,000 48,050 5,525 5,286 5,525 5,423
48,050 48,100 5,531 5,292 5,531 5,429
48,100 48,150 5,537 5,298 5,537 5,435
48,150 48,200 5,543 5,304 5,543 5,441
48,200 48,250 5,549 5,310 5,549 5,447
48,250 48,300 5,555 5,316 5,555 5,453
48,300 48,350 5,561 5,322 5,561 5,459
48,350 48,400 5,567 5,328 5,567 5,465
48,400 48,450 5,573 5,334 5,573 5,471
48,450 48,500 5,579 5,340 5,579 5,477
48,500 48,550 5,590 5,346 5,590 5,483
48,550 48,600 5,601 5,352 5,601 5,489
48,600 48,650 5,612 5,358 5,612 5,495
48,650 48,700 5,623 5,364 5,623 5,501
48,700 48,750 5,634 5,370 5,634 5,507
48,750 48,800 5,645 5,376 5,645 5,513
48,800 48,850 5,656 5,382 5,656 5,519
48,850 48,900 5,667 5,388 5,667 5,525
48,900 48,950 5,678 5,394 5,678 5,531
48,950 49,000 5,689 5,400 5,689 5,537
49,000
49,000 49,050 5,700 5,406 5,700 5,543
49,050 49,100 5,711 5,412 5,711 5,549
49,100 49,150 5,722 5,418 5,722 5,555
49,150 49,200 5,733 5,424 5,733 5,561
49,200 49,250 5,744 5,430 5,744 5,567
49,250 49,300 5,755 5,436 5,755 5,573
49,300 49,350 5,766 5,442 5,766 5,579
49,350 49,400 5,777 5,448 5,777 5,585
49,400 49,450 5,788 5,454 5,788 5,591
49,450 49,500 5,799 5,460 5,799 5,597
49,500 49,550 5,810 5,466 5,810 5,603
49,550 49,600 5,821 5,472 5,821 5,609
49,600 49,650 5,832 5,478 5,832 5,615
49,650 49,700 5,843 5,484 5,843 5,621
49,700 49,750 5,854 5,490 5,854 5,627
49,750 49,800 5,865 5,496 5,865 5,633
49,800 49,850 5,876 5,502 5,876 5,639
49,850 49,900 5,887 5,508 5,887 5,645
49,900 49,950 5,898 5,514 5,898 5,651
49,950 50,000 5,909 5,520 5,909 5,657
50,000
50,000 50,050 5,920 5,526 5,920 5,663
50,050 50,100 5,931 5,532 5,931 5,669
50,100 50,150 5,942 5,538 5,942 5,675
50,150 50,200 5,953 5,544 5,953 5,681
50,200 50,250 5,964 5,550 5,964 5,687
50,250 50,300 5,975 5,556 5,975 5,693
50,300 50,350 5,986 5,562 5,986 5,699
50,350 50,400 5,997 5,568 5,997 5,705
50,400 50,450 6,008 5,574 6,008 5,711
50,450 50,500 6,019 5,580 6,019 5,717
50,500 50,550 6,030 5,586 6,030 5,723
50,550 50,600 6,041 5,592 6,041 5,729
50,600 50,650 6,052 5,598 6,052 5,735
50,650 50,700 6,063 5,604 6,063 5,741
50,700 50,750 6,074 5,610 6,074 5,747
50,750 50,800 6,085 5,616 6,085 5,753
50,800 50,850 6,096 5,622 6,096 5,759
50,850 50,900 6,107 5,628 6,107 5,765
50,900 50,950 6,118 5,634 6,118 5,771
50,950 51,000 6,129 5,640 6,129 5,777
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
51,000
51,000 51,050 6,140 5,646 6,140 5,783
51,050 51,100 6,151 5,652 6,151 5,789
51,100 51,150 6,162 5,658 6,162 5,795
51,150 51,200 6,173 5,664 6,173 5,801
51,200 51,250 6,184 5,670 6,184 5,807
51,250 51,300 6,195 5,676 6,195 5,813
51,300 51,350 6,206 5,682 6,206 5,819
51,350 51,400 6,217 5,688 6,217 5,825
51,400 51,450 6,228 5,694 6,228 5,831
51,450 51,500 6,239 5,700 6,239 5,837
51,500 51,550 6,250 5,706 6,250 5,843
51,550 51,600 6,261 5,712 6,261 5,849
51,600 51,650 6,272 5,718 6,272 5,855
51,650 51,700 6,283 5,724 6,283 5,861
51,700 51,750 6,294 5,730 6,294 5,867
51,750 51,800 6,305 5,736 6,305 5,873
51,800 51,850 6,316 5,742 6,316 5,879
51,850 51,900 6,327 5,748 6,327 5,885
51,900 51,950 6,338 5,754 6,338 5,891
51,950 52,000 6,349 5,760 6,349 5,897
52,000
52,000 52,050 6,360 5,766 6,360 5,903
52,050 52,100 6,371 5,772 6,371 5,909
52,100 52,150 6,382 5,778 6,382 5,915
52,150 52,200 6,393 5,784 6,393 5,921
52,200 52,250 6,404 5,790 6,404 5,927
52,250 52,300 6,415 5,796 6,415 5,933
52,300 52,350 6,426 5,802 6,426 5,939
52,350 52,400 6,437 5,808 6,437 5,945
52,400 52,450 6,448 5,814 6,448 5,951
52,450 52,500 6,459 5,820 6,459 5,957
52,500 52,550 6,470 5,826 6,470 5,963
52,550 52,600 6,481 5,832 6,481 5,969
52,600 52,650 6,492 5,838 6,492 5,975
52,650 52,700 6,503 5,844 6,503 5,981
52,700 52,750 6,514 5,850 6,514 5,987
52,750 52,800 6,525 5,856 6,525 5,993
52,800 52,850 6,536 5,862 6,536 5,999
52,850 52,900 6,547 5,868 6,547 6,005
52,900 52,950 6,558 5,874 6,558 6,011
52,950 53,000 6,569 5,880 6,569 6,017
53,000
53,000 53,050 6,580 5,886 6,580 6,023
53,050 53,100 6,591 5,892 6,591 6,029
53,100 53,150 6,602 5,898 6,602 6,035
53,150 53,200 6,613 5,904 6,613 6,041
53,200 53,250 6,624 5,910 6,624 6,047
53,250 53,300 6,635 5,916 6,635 6,053
53,300 53,350 6,646 5,922 6,646 6,059
53,350 53,400 6,657 5,928 6,657 6,065
53,400 53,450 6,668 5,934 6,668 6,071
53,450 53,500 6,679 5,940 6,679 6,077
53,500 53,550 6,690 5,946 6,690 6,083
53,550 53,600 6,701 5,952 6,701 6,089
53,600 53,650 6,712 5,958 6,712 6,095
53,650 53,700 6,723 5,964 6,723 6,101
53,700 53,750 6,734 5,970 6,734 6,107
53,750 53,800 6,745 5,976 6,745 6,113
53,800 53,850 6,756 5,982 6,756 6,119
53,850 53,900 6,767 5,988 6,767 6,125
53,900 53,950 6,778 5,994 6,778 6,131
53,950 54,000 6,789 6,000 6,789 6,137
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
54,000
54,000 54,050 6,800 6,006 6,800 6,143
54,050 54,100 6,811 6,012 6,811 6,149
54,100 54,150 6,822 6,018 6,822 6,155
54,150 54,200 6,833 6,024 6,833 6,161
54,200 54,250 6,844 6,030 6,844 6,167
54,250 54,300 6,855 6,036 6,855 6,173
54,300 54,350 6,866 6,042 6,866 6,179
54,350 54,400 6,877 6,048 6,877 6,185
54,400 54,450 6,888 6,054 6,888 6,191
54,450 54,500 6,899 6,060 6,899 6,197
54,500 54,550 6,910 6,066 6,910 6,203
54,550 54,600 6,921 6,072 6,921 6,209
54,600 54,650 6,932 6,078 6,932 6,215
54,650 54,700 6,943 6,084 6,943 6,221
54,700 54,750 6,954 6,090 6,954 6,227
54,750 54,800 6,965 6,096 6,965 6,233
54,800 54,850 6,976 6,102 6,976 6,239
54,850 54,900 6,987 6,108 6,987 6,245
54,900 54,950 6,998 6,114 6,998 6,251
54,950 55,000 7,009 6,120 7,009 6,257
55,000
55,000 55,050 7,020 6,126 7,020 6,263
55,050 55,100 7,031 6,132 7,031 6,269
55,100 55,150 7,042 6,138 7,042 6,275
55,150 55,200 7,053 6,144 7,053 6,281
55,200 55,250 7,064 6,150 7,064 6,287
55,250 55,300 7,075 6,156 7,075 6,293
55,300 55,350 7,086 6,162 7,086 6,299
55,350 55,400 7,097 6,168 7,097 6,305
55,400 55,450 7,108 6,174 7,108 6,311
55,450 55,500 7,119 6,180 7,119 6,317
55,500 55,550 7,130 6,186 7,130 6,323
55,550 55,600 7,141 6,192 7,141 6,329
55,600 55,650 7,152 6,198 7,152 6,335
55,650 55,700 7,163 6,204 7,163 6,341
55,700 55,750 7,174 6,210 7,174 6,347
55,750 55,800 7,185 6,216 7,185 6,353
55,800 55,850 7,196 6,222 7,196 6,359
55,850 55,900 7,207 6,228 7,207 6,365
55,900 55,950 7,218 6,234 7,218 6,371
55,950 56,000 7,229 6,240 7,229 6,377
56,000
56,000 56,050 7,240 6,246 7,240 6,383
56,050 56,100 7,251 6,252 7,251 6,389
56,100 56,150 7,262 6,258 7,262 6,395
56,150 56,200 7,273 6,264 7,273 6,401
56,200 56,250 7,284 6,270 7,284 6,407
56,250 56,300 7,295 6,276 7,295 6,413
56,300 56,350 7,306 6,282 7,306 6,419
56,350 56,400 7,317 6,288 7,317 6,425
56,400 56,450 7,328 6,294 7,328 6,431
56,450 56,500 7,339 6,300 7,339 6,437
56,500 56,550 7,350 6,306 7,350 6,443
56,550 56,600 7,361 6,312 7,361 6,449
56,600 56,650 7,372 6,318 7,372 6,455
56,650 56,700 7,383 6,324 7,383 6,461
56,700 56,750 7,394 6,330 7,394 6,467
56,750 56,800 7,405 6,336 7,405 6,473
56,800 56,850 7,416 6,342 7,416 6,479
56,850 56,900 7,427 6,348 7,427 6,485
56,900 56,950 7,438 6,354 7,438 6,491
56,950 57,000 7,449 6,360 7,449 6,497
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Publication 17 (2025) 117

[PAGE 120]
Page 120 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
57,000
57,000 57,050 7,460 6,366 7,460 6,503
57,050 57,100 7,471 6,372 7,471 6,509
57,100 57,150 7,482 6,378 7,482 6,515
57,150 57,200 7,493 6,384 7,493 6,521
57,200 57,250 7,504 6,390 7,504 6,527
57,250 57,300 7,515 6,396 7,515 6,533
57,300 57,350 7,526 6,402 7,526 6,539
57,350 57,400 7,537 6,408 7,537 6,545
57,400 57,450 7,548 6,414 7,548 6,551
57,450 57,500 7,559 6,420 7,559 6,557
57,500 57,550 7,570 6,426 7,570 6,563
57,550 57,600 7,581 6,432 7,581 6,569
57,600 57,650 7,592 6,438 7,592 6,575
57,650 57,700 7,603 6,444 7,603 6,581
57,700 57,750 7,614 6,450 7,614 6,587
57,750 57,800 7,625 6,456 7,625 6,593
57,800 57,850 7,636 6,462 7,636 6,599
57,850 57,900 7,647 6,468 7,647 6,605
57,900 57,950 7,658 6,474 7,658 6,611
57,950 58,000 7,669 6,480 7,669 6,617
58,000
58,000 58,050 7,680 6,486 7,680 6,623
58,050 58,100 7,691 6,492 7,691 6,629
58,100 58,150 7,702 6,498 7,702 6,635
58,150 58,200 7,713 6,504 7,713 6,641
58,200 58,250 7,724 6,510 7,724 6,647
58,250 58,300 7,735 6,516 7,735 6,653
58,300 58,350 7,746 6,522 7,746 6,659
58,350 58,400 7,757 6,528 7,757 6,665
58,400 58,450 7,768 6,534 7,768 6,671
58,450 58,500 7,779 6,540 7,779 6,677
58,500 58,550 7,790 6,546 7,790 6,683
58,550 58,600 7,801 6,552 7,801 6,689
58,600 58,650 7,812 6,558 7,812 6,695
58,650 58,700 7,823 6,564 7,823 6,701
58,700 58,750 7,834 6,570 7,834 6,707
58,750 58,800 7,845 6,576 7,845 6,713
58,800 58,850 7,856 6,582 7,856 6,719
58,850 58,900 7,867 6,588 7,867 6,725
58,900 58,950 7,878 6,594 7,878 6,731
58,950 59,000 7,889 6,600 7,889 6,737
59,000
59,000 59,050 7,900 6,606 7,900 6,743
59,050 59,100 7,911 6,612 7,911 6,749
59,100 59,150 7,922 6,618 7,922 6,755
59,150 59,200 7,933 6,624 7,933 6,761
59,200 59,250 7,944 6,630 7,944 6,767
59,250 59,300 7,955 6,636 7,955 6,773
59,300 59,350 7,966 6,642 7,966 6,779
59,350 59,400 7,977 6,648 7,977 6,785
59,400 59,450 7,988 6,654 7,988 6,791
59,450 59,500 7,999 6,660 7,999 6,797
59,500 59,550 8,010 6,666 8,010 6,803
59,550 59,600 8,021 6,672 8,021 6,809
59,600 59,650 8,032 6,678 8,032 6,815
59,650 59,700 8,043 6,684 8,043 6,821
59,700 59,750 8,054 6,690 8,054 6,827
59,750 59,800 8,065 6,696 8,065 6,833
59,800 59,850 8,076 6,702 8,076 6,839
59,850 59,900 8,087 6,708 8,087 6,845
59,900 59,950 8,098 6,714 8,098 6,851
59,950 60,000 8,109 6,720 8,109 6,857
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
60,000
60,000 60,050 8,120 6,726 8,120 6,863
60,050 60,100 8,131 6,732 8,131 6,869
60,100 60,150 8,142 6,738 8,142 6,875
60,150 60,200 8,153 6,744 8,153 6,881
60,200 60,250 8,164 6,750 8,164 6,887
60,250 60,300 8,175 6,756 8,175 6,893
60,300 60,350 8,186 6,762 8,186 6,899
60,350 60,400 8,197 6,768 8,197 6,905
60,400 60,450 8,208 6,774 8,208 6,911
60,450 60,500 8,219 6,780 8,219 6,917
60,500 60,550 8,230 6,786 8,230 6,923
60,550 60,600 8,241 6,792 8,241 6,929
60,600 60,650 8,252 6,798 8,252 6,935
60,650 60,700 8,263 6,804 8,263 6,941
60,700 60,750 8,274 6,810 8,274 6,947
60,750 60,800 8,285 6,816 8,285 6,953
60,800 60,850 8,296 6,822 8,296 6,959
60,850 60,900 8,307 6,828 8,307 6,965
60,900 60,950 8,318 6,834 8,318 6,971
60,950 61,000 8,329 6,840 8,329 6,977
61,000
61,000 61,050 8,340 6,846 8,340 6,983
61,050 61,100 8,351 6,852 8,351 6,989
61,100 61,150 8,362 6,858 8,362 6,995
61,150 61,200 8,373 6,864 8,373 7,001
61,200 61,250 8,384 6,870 8,384 7,007
61,250 61,300 8,395 6,876 8,395 7,013
61,300 61,350 8,406 6,882 8,406 7,019
61,350 61,400 8,417 6,888 8,417 7,025
61,400 61,450 8,428 6,894 8,428 7,031
61,450 61,500 8,439 6,900 8,439 7,037
61,500 61,550 8,450 6,906 8,450 7,043
61,550 61,600 8,461 6,912 8,461 7,049
61,600 61,650 8,472 6,918 8,472 7,055
61,650 61,700 8,483 6,924 8,483 7,061
61,700 61,750 8,494 6,930 8,494 7,067
61,750 61,800 8,505 6,936 8,505 7,073
61,800 61,850 8,516 6,942 8,516 7,079
61,850 61,900 8,527 6,948 8,527 7,085
61,900 61,950 8,538 6,954 8,538 7,091
61,950 62,000 8,549 6,960 8,549 7,097
62,000
62,000 62,050 8,560 6,966 8,560 7,103
62,050 62,100 8,571 6,972 8,571 7,109
62,100 62,150 8,582 6,978 8,582 7,115
62,150 62,200 8,593 6,984 8,593 7,121
62,200 62,250 8,604 6,990 8,604 7,127
62,250 62,300 8,615 6,996 8,615 7,133
62,300 62,350 8,626 7,002 8,626 7,139
62,350 62,400 8,637 7,008 8,637 7,145
62,400 62,450 8,648 7,014 8,648 7,151
62,450 62,500 8,659 7,020 8,659 7,157
62,500 62,550 8,670 7,026 8,670 7,163
62,550 62,600 8,681 7,032 8,681 7,169
62,600 62,650 8,692 7,038 8,692 7,175
62,650 62,700 8,703 7,044 8,703 7,181
62,700 62,750 8,714 7,050 8,714 7,187
62,750 62,800 8,725 7,056 8,725 7,193
62,800 62,850 8,736 7,062 8,736 7,199
62,850 62,900 8,747 7,068 8,747 7,205
62,900 62,950 8,758 7,074 8,758 7,211
62,950 63,000 8,769 7,080 8,769 7,217
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
63,000
63,000 63,050 8,780 7,086 8,780 7,223
63,050 63,100 8,791 7,092 8,791 7,229
63,100 63,150 8,802 7,098 8,802 7,235
63,150 63,200 8,813 7,104 8,813 7,241
63,200 63,250 8,824 7,110 8,824 7,247
63,250 63,300 8,835 7,116 8,835 7,253
63,300 63,350 8,846 7,122 8,846 7,259
63,350 63,400 8,857 7,128 8,857 7,265
63,400 63,450 8,868 7,134 8,868 7,271
63,450 63,500 8,879 7,140 8,879 7,277
63,500 63,550 8,890 7,146 8,890 7,283
63,550 63,600 8,901 7,152 8,901 7,289
63,600 63,650 8,912 7,158 8,912 7,295
63,650 63,700 8,923 7,164 8,923 7,301
63,700 63,750 8,934 7,170 8,934 7,307
63,750 63,800 8,945 7,176 8,945 7,313
63,800 63,850 8,956 7,182 8,956 7,319
63,850 63,900 8,967 7,188 8,967 7,325
63,900 63,950 8,978 7,194 8,978 7,331
63,950 64,000 8,989 7,200 8,989 7,337
64,000
64,000 64,050 9,000 7,206 9,000 7,343
64,050 64,100 9,011 7,212 9,011 7,349
64,100 64,150 9,022 7,218 9,022 7,355
64,150 64,200 9,033 7,224 9,033 7,361
64,200 64,250 9,044 7,230 9,044 7,367
64,250 64,300 9,055 7,236 9,055 7,373
64,300 64,350 9,066 7,242 9,066 7,379
64,350 64,400 9,077 7,248 9,077 7,385
64,400 64,450 9,088 7,254 9,088 7,391
64,450 64,500 9,099 7,260 9,099 7,397
64,500 64,550 9,110 7,266 9,110 7,403
64,550 64,600 9,121 7,272 9,121 7,409
64,600 64,650 9,132 7,278 9,132 7,415
64,650 64,700 9,143 7,284 9,143 7,421
64,700 64,750 9,154 7,290 9,154 7,427
64,750 64,800 9,165 7,296 9,165 7,433
64,800 64,850 9,176 7,302 9,176 7,439
64,850 64,900 9,187 7,308 9,187 7,448
64,900 64,950 9,198 7,314 9,198 7,459
64,950 65,000 9,209 7,320 9,209 7,470
65,000
65,000 65,050 9,220 7,326 9,220 7,481
65,050 65,100 9,231 7,332 9,231 7,492
65,100 65,150 9,242 7,338 9,242 7,503
65,150 65,200 9,253 7,344 9,253 7,514
65,200 65,250 9,264 7,350 9,264 7,525
65,250 65,300 9,275 7,356 9,275 7,536
65,300 65,350 9,286 7,362 9,286 7,547
65,350 65,400 9,297 7,368 9,297 7,558
65,400 65,450 9,308 7,374 9,308 7,569
65,450 65,500 9,319 7,380 9,319 7,580
65,500 65,550 9,330 7,386 9,330 7,591
65,550 65,600 9,341 7,392 9,341 7,602
65,600 65,650 9,352 7,398 9,352 7,613
65,650 65,700 9,363 7,404 9,363 7,624
65,700 65,750 9,374 7,410 9,374 7,635
65,750 65,800 9,385 7,416 9,385 7,646
65,800 65,850 9,396 7,422 9,396 7,657
65,850 65,900 9,407 7,428 9,407 7,668
65,900 65,950 9,418 7,434 9,418 7,679
65,950 66,000 9,429 7,440 9,429 7,690
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
118 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 121]
Page 121 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
66,000
66,000 66,050 9,440 7,446 9,440 7,701
66,050 66,100 9,451 7,452 9,451 7,712
66,100 66,150 9,462 7,458 9,462 7,723
66,150 66,200 9,473 7,464 9,473 7,734
66,200 66,250 9,484 7,470 9,484 7,745
66,250 66,300 9,495 7,476 9,495 7,756
66,300 66,350 9,506 7,482 9,506 7,767
66,350 66,400 9,517 7,488 9,517 7,778
66,400 66,450 9,528 7,494 9,528 7,789
66,450 66,500 9,539 7,500 9,539 7,800
66,500 66,550 9,550 7,506 9,550 7,811
66,550 66,600 9,561 7,512 9,561 7,822
66,600 66,650 9,572 7,518 9,572 7,833
66,650 66,700 9,583 7,524 9,583 7,844
66,700 66,750 9,594 7,530 9,594 7,855
66,750 66,800 9,605 7,536 9,605 7,866
66,800 66,850 9,616 7,542 9,616 7,877
66,850 66,900 9,627 7,548 9,627 7,888
66,900 66,950 9,638 7,554 9,638 7,899
66,950 67,000 9,649 7,560 9,649 7,910
67,000
67,000 67,050 9,660 7,566 9,660 7,921
67,050 67,100 9,671 7,572 9,671 7,932
67,100 67,150 9,682 7,578 9,682 7,943
67,150 67,200 9,693 7,584 9,693 7,954
67,200 67,250 9,704 7,590 9,704 7,965
67,250 67,300 9,715 7,596 9,715 7,976
67,300 67,350 9,726 7,602 9,726 7,987
67,350 67,400 9,737 7,608 9,737 7,998
67,400 67,450 9,748 7,614 9,748 8,009
67,450 67,500 9,759 7,620 9,759 8,020
67,500 67,550 9,770 7,626 9,770 8,031
67,550 67,600 9,781 7,632 9,781 8,042
67,600 67,650 9,792 7,638 9,792 8,053
67,650 67,700 9,803 7,644 9,803 8,064
67,700 67,750 9,814 7,650 9,814 8,075
67,750 67,800 9,825 7,656 9,825 8,086
67,800 67,850 9,836 7,662 9,836 8,097
67,850 67,900 9,847 7,668 9,847 8,108
67,900 67,950 9,858 7,674 9,858 8,119
67,950 68,000 9,869 7,680 9,869 8,130
68,000
68,000 68,050 9,880 7,686 9,880 8,141
68,050 68,100 9,891 7,692 9,891 8,152
68,100 68,150 9,902 7,698 9,902 8,163
68,150 68,200 9,913 7,704 9,913 8,174
68,200 68,250 9,924 7,710 9,924 8,185
68,250 68,300 9,935 7,716 9,935 8,196
68,300 68,350 9,946 7,722 9,946 8,207
68,350 68,400 9,957 7,728 9,957 8,218
68,400 68,450 9,968 7,734 9,968 8,229
68,450 68,500 9,979 7,740 9,979 8,240
68,500 68,550 9,990 7,746 9,990 8,251
68,550 68,600 10,001 7,752 10,001 8,262
68,600 68,650 10,012 7,758 10,012 8,273
68,650 68,700 10,023 7,764 10,023 8,284
68,700 68,750 10,034 7,770 10,034 8,295
68,750 68,800 10,045 7,776 10,045 8,306
68,800 68,850 10,056 7,782 10,056 8,317
68,850 68,900 10,067 7,788 10,067 8,328
68,900 68,950 10,078 7,794 10,078 8,339
68,950 69,000 10,089 7,800 10,089 8,350
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
69,000
69,000 69,050 10,100 7,806 10,100 8,361
69,050 69,100 10,111 7,812 10,111 8,372
69,100 69,150 10,122 7,818 10,122 8,383
69,150 69,200 10,133 7,824 10,133 8,394
69,200 69,250 10,144 7,830 10,144 8,405
69,250 69,300 10,155 7,836 10,155 8,416
69,300 69,350 10,166 7,842 10,166 8,427
69,350 69,400 10,177 7,848 10,177 8,438
69,400 69,450 10,188 7,854 10,188 8,449
69,450 69,500 10,199 7,860 10,199 8,460
69,500 69,550 10,210 7,866 10,210 8,471
69,550 69,600 10,221 7,872 10,221 8,482
69,600 69,650 10,232 7,878 10,232 8,493
69,650 69,700 10,243 7,884 10,243 8,504
69,700 69,750 10,254 7,890 10,254 8,515
69,750 69,800 10,265 7,896 10,265 8,526
69,800 69,850 10,276 7,902 10,276 8,537
69,850 69,900 10,287 7,908 10,287 8,548
69,900 69,950 10,298 7,914 10,298 8,559
69,950 70,000 10,309 7,920 10,309 8,570
70,000
70,000 70,050 10,320 7,926 10,320 8,581
70,050 70,100 10,331 7,932 10,331 8,592
70,100 70,150 10,342 7,938 10,342 8,603
70,150 70,200 10,353 7,944 10,353 8,614
70,200 70,250 10,364 7,950 10,364 8,625
70,250 70,300 10,375 7,956 10,375 8,636
70,300 70,350 10,386 7,962 10,386 8,647
70,350 70,400 10,397 7,968 10,397 8,658
70,400 70,450 10,408 7,974 10,408 8,669
70,450 70,500 10,419 7,980 10,419 8,680
70,500 70,550 10,430 7,986 10,430 8,691
70,550 70,600 10,441 7,992 10,441 8,702
70,600 70,650 10,452 7,998 10,452 8,713
70,650 70,700 10,463 8,004 10,463 8,724
70,700 70,750 10,474 8,010 10,474 8,735
70,750 70,800 10,485 8,016 10,485 8,746
70,800 70,850 10,496 8,022 10,496 8,757
70,850 70,900 10,507 8,028 10,507 8,768
70,900 70,950 10,518 8,034 10,518 8,779
70,950 71,000 10,529 8,040 10,529 8,790
71,000
71,000 71,050 10,540 8,046 10,540 8,801
71,050 71,100 10,551 8,052 10,551 8,812
71,100 71,150 10,562 8,058 10,562 8,823
71,150 71,200 10,573 8,064 10,573 8,834
71,200 71,250 10,584 8,070 10,584 8,845
71,250 71,300 10,595 8,076 10,595 8,856
71,300 71,350 10,606 8,082 10,606 8,867
71,350 71,400 10,617 8,088 10,617 8,878
71,400 71,450 10,628 8,094 10,628 8,889
71,450 71,500 10,639 8,100 10,639 8,900
71,500 71,550 10,650 8,106 10,650 8,911
71,550 71,600 10,661 8,112 10,661 8,922
71,600 71,650 10,672 8,118 10,672 8,933
71,650 71,700 10,683 8,124 10,683 8,944
71,700 71,750 10,694 8,130 10,694 8,955
71,750 71,800 10,705 8,136 10,705 8,966
71,800 71,850 10,716 8,142 10,716 8,977
71,850 71,900 10,727 8,148 10,727 8,988
71,900 71,950 10,738 8,154 10,738 8,999
71,950 72,000 10,749 8,160 10,749 9,010
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
72,000
72,000 72,050 10,760 8,166 10,760 9,021
72,050 72,100 10,771 8,172 10,771 9,032
72,100 72,150 10,782 8,178 10,782 9,043
72,150 72,200 10,793 8,184 10,793 9,054
72,200 72,250 10,804 8,190 10,804 9,065
72,250 72,300 10,815 8,196 10,815 9,076
72,300 72,350 10,826 8,202 10,826 9,087
72,350 72,400 10,837 8,208 10,837 9,098
72,400 72,450 10,848 8,214 10,848 9,109
72,450 72,500 10,859 8,220 10,859 9,120
72,500 72,550 10,870 8,226 10,870 9,131
72,550 72,600 10,881 8,232 10,881 9,142
72,600 72,650 10,892 8,238 10,892 9,153
72,650 72,700 10,903 8,244 10,903 9,164
72,700 72,750 10,914 8,250 10,914 9,175
72,750 72,800 10,925 8,256 10,925 9,186
72,800 72,850 10,936 8,262 10,936 9,197
72,850 72,900 10,947 8,268 10,947 9,208
72,900 72,950 10,958 8,274 10,958 9,219
72,950 73,000 10,969 8,280 10,969 9,230
73,000
73,000 73,050 10,980 8,286 10,980 9,241
73,050 73,100 10,991 8,292 10,991 9,252
73,100 73,150 11,002 8,298 11,002 9,263
73,150 73,200 11,013 8,304 11,013 9,274
73,200 73,250 11,024 8,310 11,024 9,285
73,250 73,300 11,035 8,316 11,035 9,296
73,300 73,350 11,046 8,322 11,046 9,307
73,350 73,400 11,057 8,328 11,057 9,318
73,400 73,450 11,068 8,334 11,068 9,329
73,450 73,500 11,079 8,340 11,079 9,340
73,500 73,550 11,090 8,346 11,090 9,351
73,550 73,600 11,101 8,352 11,101 9,362
73,600 73,650 11,112 8,358 11,112 9,373
73,650 73,700 11,123 8,364 11,123 9,384
73,700 73,750 11,134 8,370 11,134 9,395
73,750 73,800 11,145 8,376 11,145 9,406
73,800 73,850 11,156 8,382 11,156 9,417
73,850 73,900 11,167 8,388 11,167 9,428
73,900 73,950 11,178 8,394 11,178 9,439
73,950 74,000 11,189 8,400 11,189 9,450
74,000
74,000 74,050 11,200 8,406 11,200 9,461
74,050 74,100 11,211 8,412 11,211 9,472
74,100 74,150 11,222 8,418 11,222 9,483
74,150 74,200 11,233 8,424 11,233 9,494
74,200 74,250 11,244 8,430 11,244 9,505
74,250 74,300 11,255 8,436 11,255 9,516
74,300 74,350 11,266 8,442 11,266 9,527
74,350 74,400 11,277 8,448 11,277 9,538
74,400 74,450 11,288 8,454 11,288 9,549
74,450 74,500 11,299 8,460 11,299 9,560
74,500 74,550 11,310 8,466 11,310 9,571
74,550 74,600 11,321 8,472 11,321 9,582
74,600 74,650 11,332 8,478 11,332 9,593
74,650 74,700 11,343 8,484 11,343 9,604
74,700 74,750 11,354 8,490 11,354 9,615
74,750 74,800 11,365 8,496 11,365 9,626
74,800 74,850 11,376 8,502 11,376 9,637
74,850 74,900 11,387 8,508 11,387 9,648
74,900 74,950 11,398 8,514 11,398 9,659
74,950 75,000 11,409 8,520 11,409 9,670
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Publication 17 (2025) 119

[PAGE 122]
Page 122 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
75,000
75,000 75,050 11,420 8,526 11,420 9,681
75,050 75,100 11,431 8,532 11,431 9,692
75,100 75,150 11,442 8,538 11,442 9,703
75,150 75,200 11,453 8,544 11,453 9,714
75,200 75,250 11,464 8,550 11,464 9,725
75,250 75,300 11,475 8,556 11,475 9,736
75,300 75,350 11,486 8,562 11,486 9,747
75,350 75,400 11,497 8,568 11,497 9,758
75,400 75,450 11,508 8,574 11,508 9,769
75,450 75,500 11,519 8,580 11,519 9,780
75,500 75,550 11,530 8,586 11,530 9,791
75,550 75,600 11,541 8,592 11,541 9,802
75,600 75,650 11,552 8,598 11,552 9,813
75,650 75,700 11,563 8,604 11,563 9,824
75,700 75,750 11,574 8,610 11,574 9,835
75,750 75,800 11,585 8,616 11,585 9,846
75,800 75,850 11,596 8,622 11,596 9,857
75,850 75,900 11,607 8,628 11,607 9,868
75,900 75,950 11,618 8,634 11,618 9,879
75,950 76,000 11,629 8,640 11,629 9,890
76,000
76,000 76,050 11,640 8,646 11,640 9,901
76,050 76,100 11,651 8,652 11,651 9,912
76,100 76,150 11,662 8,658 11,662 9,923
76,150 76,200 11,673 8,664 11,673 9,934
76,200 76,250 11,684 8,670 11,684 9,945
76,250 76,300 11,695 8,676 11,695 9,956
76,300 76,350 11,706 8,682 11,706 9,967
76,350 76,400 11,717 8,688 11,717 9,978
76,400 76,450 11,728 8,694 11,728 9,989
76,450 76,500 11,739 8,700 11,739 10,000
76,500 76,550 11,750 8,706 11,750 10,011
76,550 76,600 11,761 8,712 11,761 10,022
76,600 76,650 11,772 8,718 11,772 10,033
76,650 76,700 11,783 8,724 11,783 10,044
76,700 76,750 11,794 8,730 11,794 10,055
76,750 76,800 11,805 8,736 11,805 10,066
76,800 76,850 11,816 8,742 11,816 10,077
76,850 76,900 11,827 8,748 11,827 10,088
76,900 76,950 11,838 8,754 11,838 10,099
76,950 77,000 11,849 8,760 11,849 10,110
77,000
77,000 77,050 11,860 8,766 11,860 10,121
77,050 77,100 11,871 8,772 11,871 10,132
77,100 77,150 11,882 8,778 11,882 10,143
77,150 77,200 11,893 8,784 11,893 10,154
77,200 77,250 11,904 8,790 11,904 10,165
77,250 77,300 11,915 8,796 11,915 10,176
77,300 77,350 11,926 8,802 11,926 10,187
77,350 77,400 11,937 8,808 11,937 10,198
77,400 77,450 11,948 8,814 11,948 10,209
77,450 77,500 11,959 8,820 11,959 10,220
77,500 77,550 11,970 8,826 11,970 10,231
77,550 77,600 11,981 8,832 11,981 10,242
77,600 77,650 11,992 8,838 11,992 10,253
77,650 77,700 12,003 8,844 12,003 10,264
77,700 77,750 12,014 8,850 12,014 10,275
77,750 77,800 12,025 8,856 12,025 10,286
77,800 77,850 12,036 8,862 12,036 10,297
77,850 77,900 12,047 8,868 12,047 10,308
77,900 77,950 12,058 8,874 12,058 10,319
77,950 78,000 12,069 8,880 12,069 10,330
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
78,000
78,000 78,050 12,080 8,886 12,080 10,341
78,050 78,100 12,091 8,892 12,091 10,352
78,100 78,150 12,102 8,898 12,102 10,363
78,150 78,200 12,113 8,904 12,113 10,374
78,200 78,250 12,124 8,910 12,124 10,385
78,250 78,300 12,135 8,916 12,135 10,396
78,300 78,350 12,146 8,922 12,146 10,407
78,350 78,400 12,157 8,928 12,157 10,418
78,400 78,450 12,168 8,934 12,168 10,429
78,450 78,500 12,179 8,940 12,179 10,440
78,500 78,550 12,190 8,946 12,190 10,451
78,550 78,600 12,201 8,952 12,201 10,462
78,600 78,650 12,212 8,958 12,212 10,473
78,650 78,700 12,223 8,964 12,223 10,484
78,700 78,750 12,234 8,970 12,234 10,495
78,750 78,800 12,245 8,976 12,245 10,506
78,800 78,850 12,256 8,982 12,256 10,517
78,850 78,900 12,267 8,988 12,267 10,528
78,900 78,950 12,278 8,994 12,278 10,539
78,950 79,000 12,289 9,000 12,289 10,550
79,000
79,000 79,050 12,300 9,006 12,300 10,561
79,050 79,100 12,311 9,012 12,311 10,572
79,100 79,150 12,322 9,018 12,322 10,583
79,150 79,200 12,333 9,024 12,333 10,594
79,200 79,250 12,344 9,030 12,344 10,605
79,250 79,300 12,355 9,036 12,355 10,616
79,300 79,350 12,366 9,042 12,366 10,627
79,350 79,400 12,377 9,048 12,377 10,638
79,400 79,450 12,388 9,054 12,388 10,649
79,450 79,500 12,399 9,060 12,399 10,660
79,500 79,550 12,410 9,066 12,410 10,671
79,550 79,600 12,421 9,072 12,421 10,682
79,600 79,650 12,432 9,078 12,432 10,693
79,650 79,700 12,443 9,084 12,443 10,704
79,700 79,750 12,454 9,090 12,454 10,715
79,750 79,800 12,465 9,096 12,465 10,726
79,800 79,850 12,476 9,102 12,476 10,737
79,850 79,900 12,487 9,108 12,487 10,748
79,900 79,950 12,498 9,114 12,498 10,759
79,950 80,000 12,509 9,120 12,509 10,770
80,000
80,000 80,050 12,520 9,126 12,520 10,781
80,050 80,100 12,531 9,132 12,531 10,792
80,100 80,150 12,542 9,138 12,542 10,803
80,150 80,200 12,553 9,144 12,553 10,814
80,200 80,250 12,564 9,150 12,564 10,825
80,250 80,300 12,575 9,156 12,575 10,836
80,300 80,350 12,586 9,162 12,586 10,847
80,350 80,400 12,597 9,168 12,597 10,858
80,400 80,450 12,608 9,174 12,608 10,869
80,450 80,500 12,619 9,180 12,619 10,880
80,500 80,550 12,630 9,186 12,630 10,891
80,550 80,600 12,641 9,192 12,641 10,902
80,600 80,650 12,652 9,198 12,652 10,913
80,650 80,700 12,663 9,204 12,663 10,924
80,700 80,750 12,674 9,210 12,674 10,935
80,750 80,800 12,685 9,216 12,685 10,946
80,800 80,850 12,696 9,222 12,696 10,957
80,850 80,900 12,707 9,228 12,707 10,968
80,900 80,950 12,718 9,234 12,718 10,979
80,950 81,000 12,729 9,240 12,729 10,990
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
81,000
81,000 81,050 12,740 9,246 12,740 11,001
81,050 81,100 12,751 9,252 12,751 11,012
81,100 81,150 12,762 9,258 12,762 11,023
81,150 81,200 12,773 9,264 12,773 11,034
81,200 81,250 12,784 9,270 12,784 11,045
81,250 81,300 12,795 9,276 12,795 11,056
81,300 81,350 12,806 9,282 12,806 11,067
81,350 81,400 12,817 9,288 12,817 11,078
81,400 81,450 12,828 9,294 12,828 11,089
81,450 81,500 12,839 9,300 12,839 11,100
81,500 81,550 12,850 9,306 12,850 11,111
81,550 81,600 12,861 9,312 12,861 11,122
81,600 81,650 12,872 9,318 12,872 11,133
81,650 81,700 12,883 9,324 12,883 11,144
81,700 81,750 12,894 9,330 12,894 11,155
81,750 81,800 12,905 9,336 12,905 11,166
81,800 81,850 12,916 9,342 12,916 11,177
81,850 81,900 12,927 9,348 12,927 11,188
81,900 81,950 12,938 9,354 12,938 11,199
81,950 82,000 12,949 9,360 12,949 11,210
82,000
82,000 82,050 12,960 9,366 12,960 11,221
82,050 82,100 12,971 9,372 12,971 11,232
82,100 82,150 12,982 9,378 12,982 11,243
82,150 82,200 12,993 9,384 12,993 11,254
82,200 82,250 13,004 9,390 13,004 11,265
82,250 82,300 13,015 9,396 13,015 11,276
82,300 82,350 13,026 9,402 13,026 11,287
82,350 82,400 13,037 9,408 13,037 11,298
82,400 82,450 13,048 9,414 13,048 11,309
82,450 82,500 13,059 9,420 13,059 11,320
82,500 82,550 13,070 9,426 13,070 11,331
82,550 82,600 13,081 9,432 13,081 11,342
82,600 82,650 13,092 9,438 13,092 11,353
82,650 82,700 13,103 9,444 13,103 11,364
82,700 82,750 13,114 9,450 13,114 11,375
82,750 82,800 13,125 9,456 13,125 11,386
82,800 82,850 13,136 9,462 13,136 11,397
82,850 82,900 13,147 9,468 13,147 11,408
82,900 82,950 13,158 9,474 13,158 11,419
82,950 83,000 13,169 9,480 13,169 11,430
83,000
83,000 83,050 13,180 9,486 13,180 11,441
83,050 83,100 13,191 9,492 13,191 11,452
83,100 83,150 13,202 9,498 13,202 11,463
83,150 83,200 13,213 9,504 13,213 11,474
83,200 83,250 13,224 9,510 13,224 11,485
83,250 83,300 13,235 9,516 13,235 11,496
83,300 83,350 13,246 9,522 13,246 11,507
83,350 83,400 13,257 9,528 13,257 11,518
83,400 83,450 13,268 9,534 13,268 11,529
83,450 83,500 13,279 9,540 13,279 11,540
83,500 83,550 13,290 9,546 13,290 11,551
83,550 83,600 13,301 9,552 13,301 11,562
83,600 83,650 13,312 9,558 13,312 11,573
83,650 83,700 13,323 9,564 13,323 11,584
83,700 83,750 13,334 9,570 13,334 11,595
83,750 83,800 13,345 9,576 13,345 11,606
83,800 83,850 13,356 9,582 13,356 11,617
83,850 83,900 13,367 9,588 13,367 11,628
83,900 83,950 13,378 9,594 13,378 11,639
83,950 84,000 13,389 9,600 13,389 11,650
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
120 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 123]
Page 123 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
84,000
84,000 84,050 13,400 9,606 13,400 11,661
84,050 84,100 13,411 9,612 13,411 11,672
84,100 84,150 13,422 9,618 13,422 11,683
84,150 84,200 13,433 9,624 13,433 11,694
84,200 84,250 13,444 9,630 13,444 11,705
84,250 84,300 13,455 9,636 13,455 11,716
84,300 84,350 13,466 9,642 13,466 11,727
84,350 84,400 13,477 9,648 13,477 11,738
84,400 84,450 13,488 9,654 13,488 11,749
84,450 84,500 13,499 9,660 13,499 11,760
84,500 84,550 13,510 9,666 13,510 11,771
84,550 84,600 13,521 9,672 13,521 11,782
84,600 84,650 13,532 9,678 13,532 11,793
84,650 84,700 13,543 9,684 13,543 11,804
84,700 84,750 13,554 9,690 13,554 11,815
84,750 84,800 13,565 9,696 13,565 11,826
84,800 84,850 13,576 9,702 13,576 11,837
84,850 84,900 13,587 9,708 13,587 11,848
84,900 84,950 13,598 9,714 13,598 11,859
84,950 85,000 13,609 9,720 13,609 11,870
85,000
85,000 85,050 13,620 9,726 13,620 11,881
85,050 85,100 13,631 9,732 13,631 11,892
85,100 85,150 13,642 9,738 13,642 11,903
85,150 85,200 13,653 9,744 13,653 11,914
85,200 85,250 13,664 9,750 13,664 11,925
85,250 85,300 13,675 9,756 13,675 11,936
85,300 85,350 13,686 9,762 13,686 11,947
85,350 85,400 13,697 9,768 13,697 11,958
85,400 85,450 13,708 9,774 13,708 11,969
85,450 85,500 13,719 9,780 13,719 11,980
85,500 85,550 13,730 9,786 13,730 11,991
85,550 85,600 13,741 9,792 13,741 12,002
85,600 85,650 13,752 9,798 13,752 12,013
85,650 85,700 13,763 9,804 13,763 12,024
85,700 85,750 13,774 9,810 13,774 12,035
85,750 85,800 13,785 9,816 13,785 12,046
85,800 85,850 13,796 9,822 13,796 12,057
85,850 85,900 13,807 9,828 13,807 12,068
85,900 85,950 13,818 9,834 13,818 12,079
85,950 86,000 13,829 9,840 13,829 12,090
86,000
86,000 86,050 13,840 9,846 13,840 12,101
86,050 86,100 13,851 9,852 13,851 12,112
86,100 86,150 13,862 9,858 13,862 12,123
86,150 86,200 13,873 9,864 13,873 12,134
86,200 86,250 13,884 9,870 13,884 12,145
86,250 86,300 13,895 9,876 13,895 12,156
86,300 86,350 13,906 9,882 13,906 12,167
86,350 86,400 13,917 9,888 13,917 12,178
86,400 86,450 13,928 9,894 13,928 12,189
86,450 86,500 13,939 9,900 13,939 12,200
86,500 86,550 13,950 9,906 13,950 12,211
86,550 86,600 13,961 9,912 13,961 12,222
86,600 86,650 13,972 9,918 13,972 12,233
86,650 86,700 13,983 9,924 13,983 12,244
86,700 86,750 13,994 9,930 13,994 12,255
86,750 86,800 14,005 9,936 14,005 12,266
86,800 86,850 14,016 9,942 14,016 12,277
86,850 86,900 14,027 9,948 14,027 12,288
86,900 86,950 14,038 9,954 14,038 12,299
86,950 87,000 14,049 9,960 14,049 12,310
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
87,000
87,000 87,050 14,060 9,966 14,060 12,321
87,050 87,100 14,071 9,972 14,071 12,332
87,100 87,150 14,082 9,978 14,082 12,343
87,150 87,200 14,093 9,984 14,093 12,354
87,200 87,250 14,104 9,990 14,104 12,365
87,250 87,300 14,115 9,996 14,115 12,376
87,300 87,350 14,126 10,002 14,126 12,387
87,350 87,400 14,137 10,008 14,137 12,398
87,400 87,450 14,148 10,014 14,148 12,409
87,450 87,500 14,159 10,020 14,159 12,420
87,500 87,550 14,170 10,026 14,170 12,431
87,550 87,600 14,181 10,032 14,181 12,442
87,600 87,650 14,192 10,038 14,192 12,453
87,650 87,700 14,203 10,044 14,203 12,464
87,700 87,750 14,214 10,050 14,214 12,475
87,750 87,800 14,225 10,056 14,225 12,486
87,800 87,850 14,236 10,062 14,236 12,497
87,850 87,900 14,247 10,068 14,247 12,508
87,900 87,950 14,258 10,074 14,258 12,519
87,950 88,000 14,269 10,080 14,269 12,530
88,000
88,000 88,050 14,280 10,086 14,280 12,541
88,050 88,100 14,291 10,092 14,291 12,552
88,100 88,150 14,302 10,098 14,302 12,563
88,150 88,200 14,313 10,104 14,313 12,574
88,200 88,250 14,324 10,110 14,324 12,585
88,250 88,300 14,335 10,116 14,335 12,596
88,300 88,350 14,346 10,122 14,346 12,607
88,350 88,400 14,357 10,128 14,357 12,618
88,400 88,450 14,368 10,134 14,368 12,629
88,450 88,500 14,379 10,140 14,379 12,640
88,500 88,550 14,390 10,146 14,390 12,651
88,550 88,600 14,401 10,152 14,401 12,662
88,600 88,650 14,412 10,158 14,412 12,673
88,650 88,700 14,423 10,164 14,423 12,684
88,700 88,750 14,434 10,170 14,434 12,695
88,750 88,800 14,445 10,176 14,445 12,706
88,800 88,850 14,456 10,182 14,456 12,717
88,850 88,900 14,467 10,188 14,467 12,728
88,900 88,950 14,478 10,194 14,478 12,739
88,950 89,000 14,489 10,200 14,489 12,750
89,000
89,000 89,050 14,500 10,206 14,500 12,761
89,050 89,100 14,511 10,212 14,511 12,772
89,100 89,150 14,522 10,218 14,522 12,783
89,150 89,200 14,533 10,224 14,533 12,794
89,200 89,250 14,544 10,230 14,544 12,805
89,250 89,300 14,555 10,236 14,555 12,816
89,300 89,350 14,566 10,242 14,566 12,827
89,350 89,400 14,577 10,248 14,577 12,838
89,400 89,450 14,588 10,254 14,588 12,849
89,450 89,500 14,599 10,260 14,599 12,860
89,500 89,550 14,610 10,266 14,610 12,871
89,550 89,600 14,621 10,272 14,621 12,882
89,600 89,650 14,632 10,278 14,632 12,893
89,650 89,700 14,643 10,284 14,643 12,904
89,700 89,750 14,654 10,290 14,654 12,915
89,750 89,800 14,665 10,296 14,665 12,926
89,800 89,850 14,676 10,302 14,676 12,937
89,850 89,900 14,687 10,308 14,687 12,948
89,900 89,950 14,698 10,314 14,698 12,959
89,950 90,000 14,709 10,320 14,709 12,970
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
90,000
90,000 90,050 14,720 10,326 14,720 12,981
90,050 90,100 14,731 10,332 14,731 12,992
90,100 90,150 14,742 10,338 14,742 13,003
90,150 90,200 14,753 10,344 14,753 13,014
90,200 90,250 14,764 10,350 14,764 13,025
90,250 90,300 14,775 10,356 14,775 13,036
90,300 90,350 14,786 10,362 14,786 13,047
90,350 90,400 14,797 10,368 14,797 13,058
90,400 90,450 14,808 10,374 14,808 13,069
90,450 90,500 14,819 10,380 14,819 13,080
90,500 90,550 14,830 10,386 14,830 13,091
90,550 90,600 14,841 10,392 14,841 13,102
90,600 90,650 14,852 10,398 14,852 13,113
90,650 90,700 14,863 10,404 14,863 13,124
90,700 90,750 14,874 10,410 14,874 13,135
90,750 90,800 14,885 10,416 14,885 13,146
90,800 90,850 14,896 10,422 14,896 13,157
90,850 90,900 14,907 10,428 14,907 13,168
90,900 90,950 14,918 10,434 14,918 13,179
90,950 91,000 14,929 10,440 14,929 13,190
91,000
91,000 91,050 14,940 10,446 14,940 13,201
91,050 91,100 14,951 10,452 14,951 13,212
91,100 91,150 14,962 10,458 14,962 13,223
91,150 91,200 14,973 10,464 14,973 13,234
91,200 91,250 14,984 10,470 14,984 13,245
91,250 91,300 14,995 10,476 14,995 13,256
91,300 91,350 15,006 10,482 15,006 13,267
91,350 91,400 15,017 10,488 15,017 13,278
91,400 91,450 15,028 10,494 15,028 13,289
91,450 91,500 15,039 10,500 15,039 13,300
91,500 91,550 15,050 10,506 15,050 13,311
91,550 91,600 15,061 10,512 15,061 13,322
91,600 91,650 15,072 10,518 15,072 13,333
91,650 91,700 15,083 10,524 15,083 13,344
91,700 91,750 15,094 10,530 15,094 13,355
91,750 91,800 15,105 10,536 15,105 13,366
91,800 91,850 15,116 10,542 15,116 13,377
91,850 91,900 15,127 10,548 15,127 13,388
91,900 91,950 15,138 10,554 15,138 13,399
91,950 92,000 15,149 10,560 15,149 13,410
92,000
92,000 92,050 15,160 10,566 15,160 13,421
92,050 92,100 15,171 10,572 15,171 13,432
92,100 92,150 15,182 10,578 15,182 13,443
92,150 92,200 15,193 10,584 15,193 13,454
92,200 92,250 15,204 10,590 15,204 13,465
92,250 92,300 15,215 10,596 15,215 13,476
92,300 92,350 15,226 10,602 15,226 13,487
92,350 92,400 15,237 10,608 15,237 13,498
92,400 92,450 15,248 10,614 15,248 13,509
92,450 92,500 15,259 10,620 15,259 13,520
92,500 92,550 15,270 10,626 15,270 13,531
92,550 92,600 15,281 10,632 15,281 13,542
92,600 92,650 15,292 10,638 15,292 13,553
92,650 92,700 15,303 10,644 15,303 13,564
92,700 92,750 15,314 10,650 15,314 13,575
92,750 92,800 15,325 10,656 15,325 13,586
92,800 92,850 15,336 10,662 15,336 13,597
92,850 92,900 15,347 10,668 15,347 13,608
92,900 92,950 15,358 10,674 15,358 13,619
92,950 93,000 15,369 10,680 15,369 13,630
(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Publication 17 (2025) 121

[PAGE 124]
Page 124 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
93,000
93,000 93,050 15,380 10,686 15,380 13,641
93,050 93,100 15,391 10,692 15,391 13,652
93,100 93,150 15,402 10,698 15,402 13,663
93,150 93,200 15,413 10,704 15,413 13,674
93,200 93,250 15,424 10,710 15,424 13,685
93,250 93,300 15,435 10,716 15,435 13,696
93,300 93,350 15,446 10,722 15,446 13,707
93,350 93,400 15,457 10,728 15,457 13,718
93,400 93,450 15,468 10,734 15,468 13,729
93,450 93,500 15,479 10,740 15,479 13,740
93,500 93,550 15,490 10,746 15,490 13,751
93,550 93,600 15,501 10,752 15,501 13,762
93,600 93,650 15,512 10,758 15,512 13,773
93,650 93,700 15,523 10,764 15,523 13,784
93,700 93,750 15,534 10,770 15,534 13,795
93,750 93,800 15,545 10,776 15,545 13,806
93,800 93,850 15,556 10,782 15,556 13,817
93,850 93,900 15,567 10,788 15,567 13,828
93,900 93,950 15,578 10,794 15,578 13,839
93,950 94,000 15,589 10,800 15,589 13,850
94,000
94,000 94,050 15,600 10,806 15,600 13,861
94,050 94,100 15,611 10,812 15,611 13,872
94,100 94,150 15,622 10,818 15,622 13,883
94,150 94,200 15,633 10,824 15,633 13,894
94,200 94,250 15,644 10,830 15,644 13,905
94,250 94,300 15,655 10,836 15,655 13,916
94,300 94,350 15,666 10,842 15,666 13,927
94,350 94,400 15,677 10,848 15,677 13,938
94,400 94,450 15,688 10,854 15,688 13,949
94,450 94,500 15,699 10,860 15,699 13,960
94,500 94,550 15,710 10,866 15,710 13,971
94,550 94,600 15,721 10,872 15,721 13,982
94,600 94,650 15,732 10,878 15,732 13,993
94,650 94,700 15,743 10,884 15,743 14,004
94,700 94,750 15,754 10,890 15,754 14,015
94,750 94,800 15,765 10,896 15,765 14,026
94,800 94,850 15,776 10,902 15,776 14,037
94,850 94,900 15,787 10,908 15,787 14,048
94,900 94,950 15,798 10,914 15,798 14,059
94,950 95,000 15,809 10,920 15,809 14,070
95,000
95,000 95,050 15,820 10,926 15,820 14,081
95,050 95,100 15,831 10,932 15,831 14,092
95,100 95,150 15,842 10,938 15,842 14,103
95,150 95,200 15,853 10,944 15,853 14,114
95,200 95,250 15,864 10,950 15,864 14,125
95,250 95,300 15,875 10,956 15,875 14,136
95,300 95,350 15,886 10,962 15,886 14,147
95,350 95,400 15,897 10,968 15,897 14,158
95,400 95,450 15,908 10,974 15,908 14,169
95,450 95,500 15,919 10,980 15,919 14,180
95,500 95,550 15,930 10,986 15,930 14,191
95,550 95,600 15,941 10,992 15,941 14,202
95,600 95,650 15,952 10,998 15,952 14,213
95,650 95,700 15,963 11,004 15,963 14,224
95,700 95,750 15,974 11,010 15,974 14,235
95,750 95,800 15,985 11,016 15,985 14,246
95,800 95,850 15,996 11,022 15,996 14,257
95,850 95,900 16,007 11,028 16,007 14,268
95,900 95,950 16,018 11,034 16,018 14,279
95,950 96,000 16,029 11,040 16,029 14,290
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
96,000
96,000 96,050 16,040 11,046 16,040 14,301
96,050 96,100 16,051 11,052 16,051 14,312
96,100 96,150 16,062 11,058 16,062 14,323
96,150 96,200 16,073 11,064 16,073 14,334
96,200 96,250 16,084 11,070 16,084 14,345
96,250 96,300 16,095 11,076 16,095 14,356
96,300 96,350 16,106 11,082 16,106 14,367
96,350 96,400 16,117 11,088 16,117 14,378
96,400 96,450 16,128 11,094 16,128 14,389
96,450 96,500 16,139 11,100 16,139 14,400
96,500 96,550 16,150 11,106 16,150 14,411
96,550 96,600 16,161 11,112 16,161 14,422
96,600 96,650 16,172 11,118 16,172 14,433
96,650 96,700 16,183 11,124 16,183 14,444
96,700 96,750 16,194 11,130 16,194 14,455
96,750 96,800 16,205 11,136 16,205 14,466
96,800 96,850 16,216 11,142 16,216 14,477
96,850 96,900 16,227 11,148 16,227 14,488
96,900 96,950 16,238 11,154 16,238 14,499
96,950 97,000 16,249 11,163 16,249 14,510
97,000
97,000 97,050 16,260 11,174 16,260 14,521
97,050 97,100 16,271 11,185 16,271 14,532
97,100 97,150 16,282 11,196 16,282 14,543
97,150 97,200 16,293 11,207 16,293 14,554
97,200 97,250 16,304 11,218 16,304 14,565
97,250 97,300 16,315 11,229 16,315 14,576
97,300 97,350 16,326 11,240 16,326 14,587
97,350 97,400 16,337 11,251 16,337 14,598
97,400 97,450 16,348 11,262 16,348 14,609
97,450 97,500 16,359 11,273 16,359 14,620
97,500 97,550 16,370 11,284 16,370 14,631
97,550 97,600 16,381 11,295 16,381 14,642
97,600 97,650 16,392 11,306 16,392 14,653
97,650 97,700 16,403 11,317 16,403 14,664
97,700 97,750 16,414 11,328 16,414 14,675
97,750 97,800 16,425 11,339 16,425 14,686
97,800 97,850 16,436 11,350 16,436 14,697
97,850 97,900 16,447 11,361 16,447 14,708
97,900 97,950 16,458 11,372 16,458 14,719
97,950 98,000 16,469 11,383 16,469 14,730
98,000
98,000 98,050 16,480 11,394 16,480 14,741
98,050 98,100 16,491 11,405 16,491 14,752
98,100 98,150 16,502 11,416 16,502 14,763
98,150 98,200 16,513 11,427 16,513 14,774
98,200 98,250 16,524 11,438 16,524 14,785
98,250 98,300 16,535 11,449 16,535 14,796
98,300 98,350 16,546 11,460 16,546 14,807
98,350 98,400 16,557 11,471 16,557 14,818
98,400 98,450 16,568 11,482 16,568 14,829
98,450 98,500 16,579 11,493 16,579 14,840
98,500 98,550 16,590 11,504 16,590 14,851
98,550 98,600 16,601 11,515 16,601 14,862
98,600 98,650 16,612 11,526 16,612 14,873
98,650 98,700 16,623 11,537 16,623 14,884
98,700 98,750 16,634 11,548 16,634 14,895
98,750 98,800 16,645 11,559 16,645 14,906
98,800 98,850 16,656 11,570 16,656 14,917
98,850 98,900 16,667 11,581 16,667 14,928
98,900 98,950 16,678 11,592 16,678 14,939
98,950 99,000 16,689 11,603 16,689 14,950
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single Married
filing
jointly*
Married
filing
separately
Head of
a
household
Your tax is—
99,000
99,000 99,050 16,700 11,614 16,700 14,961
99,050 99,100 16,711 11,625 16,711 14,972
99,100 99,150 16,722 11,636 16,722 14,983
99,150 99,200 16,733 11,647 16,733 14,994
99,200 99,250 16,744 11,658 16,744 15,005
99,250 99,300 16,755 11,669 16,755 15,016
99,300 99,350 16,766 11,680 16,766 15,027
99,350 99,400 16,777 11,691 16,777 15,038
99,400 99,450 16,788 11,702 16,788 15,049
99,450 99,500 16,799 11,713 16,799 15,060
99,500 99,550 16,810 11,724 16,810 15,071
99,550 99,600 16,821 11,735 16,821 15,082
99,600 99,650 16,832 11,746 16,832 15,093
99,650 99,700 16,843 11,757 16,843 15,104
99,700 99,750 16,854 11,768 16,854 15,115
99,750 99,800 16,865 11,779 16,865 15,126
99,800 99,850 16,876 11,790 16,876 15,137
99,850 99,900 16,887 11,801 16,887 15,148
99,900 99,950 16,898 11,812 16,898 15,159
99,950 100,000 16,909 11,823 16,909 15,170
   
$100,000
or over
use the T ax
Computation
Worksheet
   
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
122 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 125]
Page 125 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Computation Worksheet—Line 16
CAUTION
!
See Line 16 in the Instructions for Form 1040 to see if you must use the worksheet below to figure your tax.
Note: If you’re required to use this worksheet to figure the tax on an amount from another form or worksheet, such as the Qualified
Dividends and Capital Gain T ax Worksheet, the Schedule D T ax Worksheet, Schedule J, Form 8615, or the Foreign Earned Income T ax
Worksheet, enter the amount from that form or worksheet in column (a) of the row that applies to the amount you’re looking up. Enter the
result on the appropriate line of the form or worksheet that you’re completing.
Section A—Use if your filing status is Single. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from
line 15.
(b)
Multiplication
amount
(c)
Multiply
 (a) by (b).
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c).
Enter the result here and
on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $103,350  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $ 5,086.00  $
Over $103,350 but not over $197,300  $ × 24% (0.24)  $  $ 7,153.00  $
Over $197,300 but not over $250,525  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 22,937.00  $
Over $250,525 but not over $626,350  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 30,452.75  $
Over $626,350  $ × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 42, 979.75  $
Section B—Use if your filing status is Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount
from line 15.
(b)
Multiplication
amount
(c)
Multiply
 (a) by (b).
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c).
Enter the result here and
on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $206,700  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $ 10,172.00  $
Over $206,700 but not over $394,600  $  × 24% (0.24)  $  $ 14,306.00  $
Over $394,600 but not over $501,050  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 45,874.00  $
Over $501,050 but not over $751,600  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 60,905.50  $
Over $751,600  $ × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 75,937.50  $
Section C—Use if your filing status is Married filing separately. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from
line 15.
(b)
Multiplication
amount
(c)
Multiply
 (a) by (b).
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c).
Enter the result here and
on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $103,350  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $ 5,086.00  $
Over $103,350 but not over $197,300  $  × 24% (0.24)  $  $ 7,153.00  $
Over $197,300 but not over $250,525  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 22,937.00  $
Over $250,525 but not over $375,800  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 30,452.75  $
Over $375,800  $ × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 37,968.75  $
Publication 17 (2025) 123

[PAGE 126]
Page 126 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Section D—Use if your filing status is Head of household. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount
from line 15.
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
 (a) by (b).
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c).
Enter the result here and
on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $103,350  $  × 22% (0.22)  $  $ 6,825.00  $
Over $103,350 but not over $197,300  $  × 24% (0.24)  $  $ 8,892.00  $
Over $197,300 but not over $250,500  $  × 32% (0.32)  $  $ 24,676.00  $
Over $250,500 but not over $626,350  $  × 35% (0.35)  $  $ 32,191.00  $
Over $626,350  $ × 37% (0.37)  $  $ 44,718.00  $
124 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 127]
Page 127 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2025 Tax Rate Schedules
CAUTION
!
The T ax Rate Schedules are shown so you can see the tax rate that applies to all levels of taxable income. Don’t use them to figure your tax. Instead,
see chapter 13.
Schedule X—If your filing status is Single
If your taxable income is: The tax is:
Over— But not over— of the amount over—
$0 $11,925 - - - - - - - 10% $0
11,925 48,475 $1,192.50 + 12% 11,925
48,475 103,350 5,578.50 + 22% 48,475
103,350 197,300 17,651.00 + 24% 103,350
197,300 250,525 40,199.00 + 32% 197,300
250,525 626,350 57,231.00 + 35% 250,525
626,350 - - - - - - - 188,769.75 + 37% 626,350
Schedule Y-1—If your filing status is Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse
If your taxable income is: The tax is:
Over— But not over— of the amount over—
$0 $23,850
- - - - - - -
10% $0
23,850 96,950 $2,385.00 + 12% 23,850
96,950  206,700 11,157.00 + 22% 96,950
 206,700 394,600 35,302.00 + 24% 206,700
394,600 501,050 80,398.00 + 32% 394,600
501,050 751,600 114,462.00 + 35% 501,050
751,600 - - - - - - - 202,154.50 + 37% 751,600
Schedule Y-2—If your filing status is Married filing separately
If your taxable income is: The tax is:
Over— But not over— of the amount over—
$0 $11,925 - - - - - - - 10% $0
11,925  48,475 $1,192.50 + 12% 11,925
48,475 103,350 5,578.50 + 22% 48,475
103,350 197,300 17,651.00 + 24% 103,350
197,300 250,525 40,199.00 + 32% 197,300
250,525 375,800 57,231.00 + 35% 250,525
375,800 - - - - - - - 101,077.25 + 37% 375,800
Schedule Z—If your filing status is Head of household
If your taxable income is: The tax is:
Over— But not over— of the amount over—
$0 $17,000 - - - - - - - 10% $0
17,000 64,850 $1,700.00 + 12% 17,000
64,850 103,350 7,442.00 + 22% 64,850
103,350 197,300 15,912.00 + 24% 103,350
197,300 250,500 38,460.00 + 32% 197,300
250,500 626,350 55,484.00 + 35% 250,500
626,350 - - - - - - - 187,031.50 + 37% 626,350
Publication 17 (2025) 125

[PAGE 128]
Page 128 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Your Rights as a Taxpayer
This section explains your rights as
a taxpayer and the processes for
examination, appeal, collection,
and refunds.
The Taxpayer Bill of
Rights
1. The Right to Be Informed.
T axpayers have the right to know
what they need to do to comply
with the tax laws. They are entitled
to clear explanations of the laws
and IRS procedures in all tax
forms, instructions, publications,
notices, and correspondence.
They have the right to be informed
of IRS decisions about their tax accounts and to receive clear explanations of the outcomes.
2. The Right to Quality Service.
T axpayers have the right to receive
prompt, courteous, and professional assistance in their dealings with
the IRS, to be spoken to in a way
they can easily understand, to receive clear and easily understandable communications from the IRS,
and to speak to a supervisor about
inadequate service.
3. The Right to Pay No More
than the Correct Amount of Tax.
T axpayers have the right to pay
only the amount of tax legally due,
including interest and penalties,
and to have the IRS apply all tax
payments properly.
4. The Right to Challenge the
IRS’s Position and Be Heard.
T axpayers have the right to raise
objections and provide additional
documentation in response to formal IRS actions or proposed actions, to expect that the IRS will
consider their timely objections
and documentation promptly and
fairly, and to receive a response if
the IRS does not agree with their
position.
5. The Right to Appeal an IRS
Decision in an Independent Forum. T axpayers are entitled to a
fair and impartial administrative appeal of most IRS decisions, including many penalties, and have the
right to receive a written response
regarding the IRS Independent Office of Appeals’ decision. T axpayers generally have the right to take
their cases to court.
6. The Right to Finality.  T axpayers have the right to know the maximum amount of time they have to
challenge the IRS’s position as well
as the maximum amount of time
the IRS has to audit a particular tax
year or collect a tax debt. T axpayers have the right to know when the
IRS has finished an audit.
7. The Right to Privacy.  T axpayers have the right to expect that
any IRS inquiry, examination, or
enforcement action will comply
with the law and be no more intrusive than necessary, and will respect all due process rights, including search and seizure protections,
and will provide, where applicable,
a collection due process hearing.
8. The Right to Confidentiality.
T axpayers have the right to expect
that any information they provide to
the IRS will not be disclosed unless
authorized by the taxpayer or by
law. T axpayers have the right to expect appropriate action will be
taken against employees, return
preparers, and others who wrongfully use or disclose taxpayer return
information.
9. The Right to Retain Representation. T axpayers have the
right to retain an authorized representative of their choice to represent them in their dealings with the
IRS. T axpayers have the right to
seek assistance from a Low Income T axpayer Clinic if they cannot
afford representation.
10. The Right to a Fair and Just
Tax System. T axpayers have the
right to expect the tax system to
consider facts and circumstances
that might affect their underlying liabilities, ability to pay, or ability to
provide information timely. T axpayers have the right to receive assistance from the T axpayer Advocate
Service if they are experiencing financial difficulty or if the IRS has
not resolved their tax issues properly and timely through its normal
channels.
Examinations
(Audits)
We accept most taxpayers’ returns
as filed. If we inquire about your return or select it for examination, it
does not suggest that you are dishonest. The inquiry or examination
may or may not result in more tax.
We may close your case without
change, or you may receive a refund.
The process of selecting a return for examination usually begins
in one of two ways. First, we use
computer programs to identify returns that may have incorrect
amounts. These programs may be
based on information returns, such
as Forms 1099 and W -2, on studies of past examinations, or on certain issues identified by compliance projects. Second, we use
information from outside sources
that indicates that a return may
have incorrect amounts. These
sources may include newspapers,
public records, and individuals. If
we determine that the information
is accurate and reliable, we may
use it to select a return for examination.
Pub. 556, Examination of Returns, Appeal Rights, and Claims
for Refund, explains the rules and
procedures that we follow in examinations. The following sections
give an overview of how we conduct examinations.
By mail.  We handle many examinations and inquiries by mail. We
will send you a letter with either a
request for more information or a
reason why we believe a change to
your return may be needed. Y ou
can respond by mail or you can request a personal interview with an
examiner. If you mail us the requested information or provide an
explanation, we may or may not
agree with you, and we will explain
the reasons for any changes. Do
not hesitate to write to us about
anything you do not understand.
By interview. If we notify you that
we will conduct your examination
through a personal interview, or
you request such an interview, you
have the right to ask that the examination take place at a reasonable time and place that is convenient for both you and the IRS. If our
examiner proposes any changes to
your return, they will explain the
reasons for the changes. If you do
not agree with these changes, you
can meet with the examiner’s supervisor.
Repeat examinations.  If we examined your return for the same
items in either of the 2 previous
years and proposed no change to
your tax liability, contact us as soon
as possible so we can see if we
should discontinue the examination.
Appeals
If you do not agree with the examiner’s proposed changes, you can
appeal them to the IRS Independent Office of Appeals. Most differences can be settled without expensive and time -consuming court
trials. Y our appeal rights are explained in detail in both Pub. 5,
Y our Appeal Rights and How to
Prepare a Protest if Y ou Don’t
Agree; and Pub. 556.
If you do not wish to use the
IRS Independent Office of Appeals
or disagree with its findings, you
may be able to take your case to
the U.S. T ax Court, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims, or the U.S. District
Court where you live. If you take
your case to court, the IRS will
have the burden of proving certain
facts if you kept adequate records
to show your tax liability, cooperated with the IRS, and meet certain
other conditions. If the court agrees
with you on most issues in your
case and finds that our position
was largely unjustified, you may be
able to recover some of your administrative and litigation costs.
Y ou will not be eligible to recover
these costs unless you tried to resolve your case administratively, including going through the appeals
system, and you gave us the information necessary to resolve the
case.
Collections
Pub. 594, The IRS Collection Process, explains your rights and responsibilities regarding payment of
federal taxes. It describes the following.
• What to do when you owe
taxes. It describes what to do
if you get a tax bill and what to
do if you think your bill is
wrong. It also covers making
installment payments, delaying collection action, and submitting an offer in compromise.
• IRS collection actions. It covers liens, releasing a lien, levies, releasing a levy, seizures
and sales, and release of
property.
• IRS certification to the State
Department of a seriously delinquent tax debt, which will
generally result in denial of a
passport application and may
lead to revocation of a passport.
Y our collection appeal rights
are explained in detail in Pub.
1660, Collection Appeal Rights.
Innocent spouse relief.  Generally, both you and your spouse are
each responsible for paying the full
amount of tax, interest, and penalties due on your joint return. However, if you qualify for innocent
spouse relief, you may be relieved
126 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 129]
Page 129 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
of part or all of the joint liability. T o
request relief, you must file Form
8857, Request for Innocent
Spouse Relief. For more information on innocent spouse relief, see
Pub. 971, Innocent Spouse Relief;
and Form 8857.
Potential third -party contacts.
Generally, the IRS will deal directly
with you or your duly authorized
representative. However, we sometimes talk with other persons if we
need information that you have
been unable to provide, or to verify
information we have received. If we
do contact other persons, such as
a neighbor, a bank, an employer, or
employees, we will generally need
to tell them limited information,
such as your name. The law prohibits us from disclosing any more
information than is necessary to
obtain or verify the information we
are seeking. Our need to contact
other persons may continue as
long as there is activity in your
case. If we do contact other persons, you have a right to request a
list of those contacted. Y our request can be made by telephone,
in writing, or during a personal interview.
Refunds
Y ou may file a claim for refund if
you think you paid too much tax.
Y ou must generally file the claim
within 3 years from the date you
filed your original return or 2 years
from the date you paid the tax,
whichever is later. The law generally provides for interest on your refund if it is not paid within 45 days
of the date you filed your return or
claim for refund. Pub. 556 has
more information on refunds.
If you were due a refund but you
did not file a return, you must generally file your return within 3 years
from the date the return was due
(including extensions) to get that
refund.
Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS)
TAS is an independent organization within the IRS that can help
protect your taxpayer rights. They
can offer you help if your tax problem is causing a hardship, or
you’ve tried but haven’t been able
to resolve your problem with the
IRS. If you qualify for their assistance, which is always free, they
will do everything possible to help
you. Go to
T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov or call
877-777-4778.
Tax Information
The IRS provides the following
sources for forms, publications,
and additional information.
• Internet: IRS.gov.
• T ax Questions:
IRS.gov/Help/T ax-LawQuestions and
How T o Get T ax Help.
• Forms and Publications:
IRS.gov/Forms and
IRS.gov/OrderForms.
• Small Business Ombudsman:
A small business entity can
participate in the regulatory
process and comment on enforcement actions of the IRS
by calling 888-REG-FAIR.
• T reasury Inspector General for
T ax Administration: Y ou can
confidentially report misconduct, waste, fraud, or abuse
by an IRS employee by calling
800-366-4484. People who
are deaf, hard of hearing, or
have a speech disability and
who have access to TTY/TDD
equipment can call
800-877-8339. Y ou can remain anonymous.
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax
issue; need help preparing your tax
return; or want to download free
publications, forms, or instructions,
go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. T ax reform legislation
impacting federal taxes, credits,
and deductions was enacted in P .L.
119-21, commonly known as the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for
more information and updates on
how this legislation affects your
taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return.  After receiving all your wage
and earnings statements (Forms
W-2, W -2G, 1099 -R, 1099 -MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail
or in a digital format) or other government payment statements
(Form 1099 -G); and interest, dividend, and retirement statements
from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare
and file your tax return. Y ou can
prepare the tax return yourself, see
if you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation.
Y our options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.
• Free File. This program lets
you prepare and file your federal individual income tax return for free using software or
Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation
may not be available through
Free File. Go to IRS.gov/
FreeFile to see if you qualify
for free online federal tax
preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income
T ax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to
people with low-to-moderate
incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who
need help preparing their own
tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free
IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The T ax Counseling for
the Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who
are 60 years of age and older.
TCE volunteers specialize in
answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app for
information on free tax return
preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S.
Armed Forces and qualified
veterans may use MilT ax, a
free tax service offered by the
Department of Defense
through Military OneSource.
For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource
(MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilT ax).
Also, the IRS offers Free
Fillable Forms, which can be
completed online and then
e-filed regardless of income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return.  Go to IRS.gov/
T ools for the following.
• The Earned Income T ax Credit
Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned
income credit (EITC).
• The Online EIN Application
(IRS.gov/EIN) helps you get
an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The T ax Withholding
Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)
makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income tax
you want your employer to
withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See
how your withholding affects
your refund, take-home pay, or
tax due.
• The Sales T ax Deduction
Calculator (IRS.gov/SalesT ax)
figures the amount you can
claim if you itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form
1040).
Getting answers to your
tax questions.  On
IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of
tools to help you get answers
to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive
T ax Assistant, a tool that will
ask you questions and, based
on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publications.
Y ou will find details on the
most recent tax changes and
interactive links to help you
find answers to your questions.
• Y ou may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.
Need someone to prepare your
tax return?  There are various
types of tax return preparers, including enrolled agents, certified
public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who
Publication 17 (2025) 127

[PAGE 130]
Page 130 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone
prepare your tax return, choose
that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the
overall substantive accuracy
of your return,
• Required to sign the return,
and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number
(PTIN).
Although the tax preparer
always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the information
required for the preparer to accurately prepare your return and for
the accuracy of every item reported
on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns for others should
have a thorough understanding of
tax matters. For more information
on how to choose a tax preparer,
go to Tips for Choosing a T ax
Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use
Business Services Online.  The
Social Security Administration
(SSA) offers online service at
SSA.gov/employer for fast, free,
and secure W -2 filing options to
CPAs, accountants, enrolled
agents, and individuals who process Form W -2, Wage and T ax
Statement; and Form W -2c, Corrected Wage and T ax Statement.
Business tax account.  If you are
a sole proprietor, a partnership, an
S corporation, a C corporation, or a
single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view your tax
information on record with the IRS
and do more with a business tax
account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/
SocialMedia to see the various social media tools the IRS uses to
share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives,
products, and services. At the IRS,
privacy and security are our highest priority. We use these tools to
share public information with you.
Don’t post your social security
number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites.
Always protect your identity when
using any social networking site.
The following IRS Y ouT ube
channels provide short, informative
videos on various tax -related topics in English and ASL.
• Y outube.com/irsvideos.
• Y outube.com/irsvideosASL.
CAUTION
!
Over-the-Phone Interpreter
(OPI) Service. The IRS offers the
OPI Service to taxpayers needing
language interpretation. The OPI
Service is available at T axpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS
offices, and every VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in
Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese,
Korean, Vietnamese, Russian, and
Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available
for taxpayers with disabilities.
T axpayers who need information
about accessibility services can
call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions
related to current and future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats
(for example, braille -ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility
Helpline does not have access to
your IRS account. For help with tax
law, refunds, or account -related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference.
Form 9000, Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows
you to elect to receive certain types
of written correspondence in the
following formats.
• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain T ext File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/
DisasterRelief to review the available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to
view, download, or print all the
forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go
to IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an
order.
Mobile-friendly forms.  Y ou’ll
need an IRS Online Account (OLA)
to complete mobile -friendly forms
that require signatures. Y ou’ll have
the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. Y ou’ll need scans of your
documents to support your submission. Go to IRS.gov/
MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook format.
Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including
the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at
IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested
using Apple’s iBooks for iPad. Our
eBooks haven’t been tested on
other dedicated eBook readers,
and eBook functionality may not
operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only).  Go to
IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal
tax account.
• View the amount you owe and
a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or
apply for a new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5
years of payment history and
any pending or scheduled
payments.
• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select
notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.
Get a transcript of your return.
With an online account, you can
access a variety of information to
help you during the filing season.
Y ou can get a transcript, review
your most recently filed tax return,
and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/Account.
Tax Pro Account.  This tool lets
your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your
individual taxpayer IRS OLA. For
more information, go to IRS.gov/
T axProAccount.
Using direct deposit.  The safest
and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct
deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account.
Direct deposit also avoids the possibility that your check could be
lost, stolen, destroyed, or returned
undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to
receive their refunds. If you don’t
have a bank account, go to
IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your
tax-related identity theft issues.
• T ax-related identity theft happens when someone steals
your personal information to
commit tax fraud. Y our taxes
can be affected if your SSN is
used to file a fraudulent return
or to claim a refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by email,
text messages (including
shortened links), telephone
calls, or social media channels to request or verify personal or financial information.
This includes requests for personal identification numbers
(PINs), passwords, or similar
information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft,
the IRS Identity Theft Central
webpage, for information on
identity theft and data security
protection for taxpayers, tax
professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been
lost or stolen or you suspect
you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN
(IP PIN). IP PINs are six-digit
numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse
of their SSNs on fraudulent
federal income tax returns.
When you have an IP PIN, it
prevents someone else from
filing a tax return with your
SSN. T o learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of
your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go
app to your mobile device to
check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the
EITC or the additional child tax
credit (ACTC). This applies to the
entire refund, not just the portion
associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment.  The IRS
recommends paying electronically
whenever possible. Options to pay
electronically are included in the
list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S.
dollars. Digital assets  are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments
for information on how to make a
payment using any of the following
options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from
your bank account. It’s free
and secure, and no sign-in is
required. Y ou can change or
cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
CAUTION
!
128 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 131]
Page 131 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or
Digital Wallet: Choose an approved payment processor to
pay online or by phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal:
Schedule a payment when filing your federal taxes using
tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal T ax
Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses.
Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail
your payment to the address
listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: Y ou may be able to pay
your taxes with cash at a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: Y ou may be
able to do same-day wire from
your financial institution. Contact your financial institution
for availability, cost, and time
frames.
Note: The IRS uses the latest
encryption technology to ensure
that the electronic payments you
make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go
app are safe and secure. Paying
electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now?  Go to
IRS.gov/Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment
agreement (IRS.gov/OPA) to
meet your tax obligation in
monthly installments if you
can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once you complete the
online process, you will receive immediate notification of
whether your agreement has
been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise
Pre-Qualifier to see if you can
settle your tax debt for less
than the full amount you owe.
For more information on the
Offer in Compromise program,
go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return.  Go to
IRS.gov/1040X for information and
updates.
Checking the status of your
amended return.  Go to IRS.gov/
WMAR to track the status of Form
1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks
from the date you filed
your amended return for it
to show up in our system, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or
letter you’ve received.  Go to
IRS.gov/Notices to find additional
information about responding to an
IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool.
Y ou may be able to use the Document Upload T ool to respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov.
For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP .  Y ou can use
Schedule LEP (Form 1040), Request for Change in Language
Preference, to state a preference to
receive notices, letters, or other
written communications from the
IRS in an alternative language. Y ou
may not immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a
multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. Y ou will
continue to receive communications, including notices and letters,
in English until they are translated
to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC.
Keep in mind, many questions can
be answered on IRS.gov without
visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp for the topics people
ask about most. If you still need
help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or
by phone. All TACs now provide
service by appointment, so you’ll
know in advance that you can get
CAUTION
!
the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to
IRS.gov/TAC to find the nearest
TAC and to check hours, available
services, and appointment options.
Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the
Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
—————————————
———————————
Below is a message to you from
the T axpayer Advocate Service, an
independent organization established by Congress.
The Taxpayer
Advocate Service
(TAS) Is Here To
Help You
What Is the Taxpayer
Advocate Service?
The T axpayer Advocate Service
(TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers
resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent or
correct the problems, and protects
taxpayer rights. We work to ensure
that every taxpayer is treated fairly
and that you know and understand
your rights under the T axpayer Bill
of Rights. We are Y our Voice at the
IRS.
How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems
that you haven’t been able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem
with the IRS first, but if you can’t,
then come to TAS. Our services
are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and
their representatives), including individuals, businesses,
and exempt organizations.
Y ou may be eligible for TAS
help if your IRS problem is
causing financial difficulty, if
you’ve tried and been unable
to resolve your issue with the
IRS, or if you believe an IRS
system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.
• T o get help any time with general tax topics, visit
www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.g
ov. The site can help you with
common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if
you make a mistake on your
return or if you get a notice
from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve
large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. Y ou can report systemic
issues at www.IRS.gov/
SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)
How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the
District of Columbia, and Puerto
Rico. T o find your local advocate’s
number:
• Go to
www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.g
ov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at
877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a
Taxpayer?
The T axpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with the
IRS. Go to
www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
T axpayer-Rights for more information about the rights, what they
mean to you, and how they apply to
specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to
protect taxpayer rights and ensure
the IRS is administering the tax law
in a fair and equitable way.
T o help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.
Index

10% tax for early withdrawal from
IRA or retirement plan
(See Early withdrawal from
deferred interest account,
subheading: T ax on)
2025 Tax Rate Schedules 125
401(k) plans:
T ax treatment of contributions 51
403(b) plans:
Rollovers 84, 90
529 plans (See Qualified tuition
programs)
59 1/2 rule:
Age 59 1/2 rule 87
60-day rule 83
72 rule:
Age 72 rule 85
A
Abroad, citizens traveling or
working 8, 52
(See also Foreign employment)
Absence, temporary 28, 34
Accelerated death benefits 70
Accident insurance 48
Cafeteria plans 53
Long-term care 48, 54
Accidental death benefits 49
Accounting methods 12
Accrual method (See Accrual
method taxpayers)
Cash method (See Cash method
taxpayers)
Accounting periods 12
Calendar year 10, 12, 48
Change in, standard deduction
not allowed 92
Fiscal year 12, 42
Publication 17 (2025) 129

[PAGE 132]
Page 132 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Accounting periods (Cont.)
Fringe benefits 48
Accrual method taxpayers 13
T axes paid during tax year,
deduction of 96
Accuracy-related penalties 20
Activities not engaged in for
profit 74
Address 16
Change of 18
Foreign 16
P .O. box 16
Adjusted gross income (AGI):
Modified (See Modified adjusted
gross income (MAGI))
Retirement savings contribution
credit 23
Adjustments 107
Administrators, estate
(See Executors and
administrators)
Adopted child 28, 34, 37
Adoption:
ATIN 13
Child tax credit 109
Credits:
Married filing separately 23
Employer assistance 49
T axpayer identification
number 13, 37
Age:
Children’s investments
(See Children, subheading:
Investment income of child
under age 18)
Gross income and filing
requirements (T able 1-1) 6
IRAs:
Distribution prior to age
59 1/2 87
Distribution required at age
72 85, 87
Roth IRAs 88, 91
Standard deduction for age 65 or
older 92
Age test 28
Agents:
Income paid to 13
Signing return 14
Agricultural workers (See Farmers)
Agriculture (See Farming)
Alaska Permanent Fund
dividends 74
Alaska Unemployment
Compensation Fund 97
Alcoholic beverages:
IRA prohibited transactions in 86
Aliens:
Dual-status (See Dual-status
taxpayers)
Filing required 8
Nonresident (See Nonresident
aliens)
Resident (See Resident aliens)
Alimony:
Reporting of income 74
Alternative filing methods:
Electronic (See E-file)
Alternative minimum tax
(AMT) 107
Ambulance service personnel:
Life insurance proceeds when
death in line of duty 70
Amended returns 18
(See also Form 1040-X)
Itemized deduction, change to
standard deduction 94
Standard deduction, change to
itemized deductions 94
American citizens abroad 7
(See also Citizens outside U.S.)
Employment (See Foreign
employment)
American Indians (See Indians)
American Samoa:
Income from 8
Annuities:
Decedent’s unrecovered
investment in 14
IRAs as 79
Unrecovered investment 105
Withholding 14, 40
Annulled marriages:
Filing status 21
Anthrax incidents (See T errorist
attacks)
Antiques (See Collectibles)
Appraisal fees 102
Archer MSAs 76
Contributions 49
Armed Forces:
Combat zone:
Extension to file return 12
Signing return for spouse 22
Dependency allotments 35
Disability pay 52
Disability pensions 53
GI Bill benefits 36
Military quarters allotments 35
Real estate taxes when receiving
housing allowance 99
Rehabilitative program
payments 52
Retiree’s pay withholding 37
Retirees’ pay:
T axable income 52
Wages 52
Assistance (See T ax help)
Assistance, tax (See T ax help)
ATIN (Adoption taxpayer
identification number) 13
Attachment of wages 13
Attachments to return 14
Attorney contingency fee:
As income 74
Attorney fees, whistleblower
awards:
As income 74
Attorneys' fees 102, 104
Automatic extension of time to
file 11
Form 4868 11
Awards (See Prizes and awards)
B
Babysitting 47
Back pay, award for 47
Emotional distress damages
under title VII of Civil Rights
Act of 1964 74
Backup withholding 40, 44, 55
Penalties 40
Bad debts:
Claim for refund 19
Recovery 70
Balance due 107
Bankruptcy:
Canceled debt not deemed to be
income 69
Banks:
IRAs with 79
Barter income 67
Definition of bartering 67
Form 1099-B 67
Basis:
Cost basis:
IRAs for nondeductible
contributions 82, 85
Beneficiaries 75
(See also Estate beneficiaries)
(See also T rust beneficiaries)
Bequests 75, 76
(See also Estate beneficiaries)
(See also Inheritance)
Birth of child 28
Head of household, qualifying
person to file as 25, 26
Social security number to be
obtained 37
Birth of dependent 34
Blind persons:
Exemption from withholding 39
Standard deduction for 92, 93
Bonds:
Amortization of premium 104
Issued at discount 60
Original issue discount 60
Sale of 60
Savings 57
T ax-exempt 60
Bonuses 39, 47, 76
Bookkeeping (See Recordkeeping
requirements)
Breach of contract:
Damages as income 74
Bribes 74, 103
Brokers:
IRAs with 79
Commissions 79
Burial:
Expenses 102
Business expenses:
Job search expenses 76
Reimbursements 39, 47
Returning excess business
expenses 39
Business tax credits:
Claim for refund 19
C
Cafeteria plans 53
Calendar year taxpayers:
Accounting periods 10, 12, 48
Filing due date 10
California Nonoccupational
Disability Benefit Fund 97
Campaign contributions 74
Presidential Election Campaign
Fund 14
Campaign expenses 103
Canada:
Resident of 27, 33
Cancellation of debt 67
Exceptions to treatment as
income 67
Capital assets:
Coal and iron ore 72
Capital expenses 36
Capital gains or losses:
Hobbies, sales from
collections 76
Sale of personal items 77
Carpools 74
Carrybacks:
Business tax credit
carrybacks 19
Cars 50, 77
(See also T ravel and transportation)
Personal property taxes on,
deduction of 100
Cash:
Rebates 74
Cash method taxpayers 12
Real estate transactions, tax
allocation 97
T axes paid during tax year,
deduction of 96
Cash rebates 74
Casualty insurance:
Reimbursements from 74
Casualty losses 102, 104
Certificates of deposit (CDs) 60,
77
(See also Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs))
Change of address 18
Change of name 13, 44
Chaplains:
Life insurance proceeds when
death in line of duty 70
Charitable contributions:
Gifts to reduce public debt 16
Charitable distributions,
qualified 85
Check-writing fees 103
Checks:
Constructive receipt of 13
Child and dependent care credit:
Married filing separately 23
Child born alive 28
Child care:
Babysitting 47
Care providers 47
Expenses 36
Child custody 29
Child support 74
Child tax credit 8, 26, 108-110
Claiming the credit 110
Limit on credit 110
Limits 23
Married filing separately 23
Child, qualifying 28
Children 49
(See also Adoption)
Additional child tax credit 110
Adoption (See Adopted child)
Babysitters 47
Birth of child:
Head of household, qualifying
person to file as 25, 26
Social security number to be
obtained 37
Care providers 47
(See also Child care)
Credit for 8
(See also Child tax credit)
Custody of 29
Death of child:
Head of household, qualifying
person to file as 25, 26
Dividends of (See this heading:
Investment income of child
under age 18)
Earnings of 8
Filing requirements 8
As dependents (T able 1-2) 7
Gifts to 56
Investment income of child under
age 18:
Dependent filing requirements
(T able 1-2) 7
Interest and dividends 8
Parents’ election to report on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR 8
Kidnapped 29, 33
Signing return, parent for child 15
Standard deduction for 92, 93
Stillborn 28
Support of (See Child support)
T ax credit (See Child tax credit)
T ransporting school children 77
Unearned income of 55
Chronic illness:
Accelerated payment of life
insurance proceeds
(See Accelerated death
benefits)
Long-term care (See Long-term
care insurance contracts)
Citizen or resident test 27
Citizens outside U.S.:
Earned income exclusion 3
130 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 133]
Page 133 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Citizens outside U.S. (Cont.)
Employment (See Foreign
employment)
Extension of time to file 11
Filing requirements 7
Withholding from IRA
distributions 86
Civil suits 74
(See also Damages from lawsuits)
Civil tax penalties (See Penalties)
Clergy 8
Housing 51
Real estate taxes when
receiving housing
allowance 99
Life insurance proceeds when
chaplain died in line of
duty 70
Pensions 51
Special income rules 51
Clerical help, deductibility of 102
Coal and iron ore 72
Collectibles:
IRA investment in 86
Colleges and universities:
Education costs 76
(See also Qualified tuition
programs)
Combat zone:
Extension to file return 12
Signing return for spouse 22
Commissions 39
Advance 47
IRAs with brokers 79
Sharing of (kickbacks) 76
Unearned, deduction for
repayment of 47
Common law marriage 22
Community property 7, 58
IRAs 79
Married filing separately 23
Commuting expenses 103
Employer-provided commuter
vehicle 50
Compensation 47
(See also Wages and salaries)
Defined for IRA purposes 78
Defined for Roth IRA
purposes 88
Employee 47
Miscellaneous compensation 47
Nonemployee 75
Unemployment 72
Computation of tax 14
Equal amounts 14
Negative amounts 14
Rounding off dollars 14
Confidential information:
Privacy Act and Paperwork
Reduction information 3
Constructive receipt of
income 12, 13, 61
Contributions 16, 74
(See also Campaign contributions)
(See also Charitable contributions)
Nontaxable combat pay 78
Political 104
Reservist repayments 79
Convenience fees 102
Conversion (See specific retirement
or IRA plan)
Cooperative housing:
Real estate taxes, deduction
of 97
T axes that are deductible
(T able 11-1) 99
Copyrights:
Infringement damages 74
Royalties 72
Corporations 70
(See also S corporations)
Director fees as self-employment
income 75
Corrections (See Errors)
Cost basis:
IRAs for nondeductible
contributions 82, 85
Cost-of-living allowances 48
Coupon bonds 61
Court awards and damages
(See Damages from lawsuits)
Cousin 34
Credit cards:
Benefits, taxability of
insurance 74
Payment of taxes 3
Credit for child and dependent
care expenses 108
Credit for other dependents 108,
110
Claiming the credit 110
Limit on credit 110
Qualifying person 110
Credit for the elderly or the
disabled 108
Credit or debit cards:
Payment of taxes 11
Credits 106, 108
American opportunity 23
Child tax (See Child tax credit)
Credit for other dependents 108
Earned income (See Earned
income credit)
Lifetime learning (See Lifetime
learning credit)
Custodial fees 102
Custody of child 29
D
Damages from lawsuits 74
Dating your return 14
Daycare centers 47
(See also Child care)
De minimis benefits 49
Deadlines (See Due dates)
Death (See Decedents)
Death benefits:
Accelerated 70
Life insurance proceeds (See Life
insurance)
Public safety officers who died or
were killed in line of duty, tax
exclusion 70
Death of child 28
Death of dependent 34
Debt instruments (See Bonds or
Notes)
Debts 19, 70
(See also Bad debts)
Canceled (See Cancellation of
debt)
Nonrecourse 67
Paid by another 13
Public, gifts to reduce 16
Recourse 67
Refund offset against 9, 15
Deceased taxpayers
(See Decedents)
Decedents 7
(See also Executors and
administrators)
Deceased spouse 7
Due dates 11
Filing requirements 7
Savings bonds 58
Spouse's death 22
Standard deduction 92
Declaration of rights of taxpayers:
IRS request for information 3
Deductions 70, 92
(See also Recovery of amounts
previously deducted)
Casualty losses 104
Changing claim after filing, need
to amend 18
Itemizing (See Itemized
deductions)
Pass-through entities 102
Repayments 71
Social security and railroad
retirement benefits 66
Standard deduction 92, 94
Student loan interest deduction
(See Student loans)
Theft loss 104
Deferred compensation:
Limit 51
Nonqualified plans 48
Delinquent taxes:
Real estate transactions, tax
allocation 98
Delivery services 11
Dependent taxpayer test 26
Dependents 8, 26
(See also Child tax credit)
Birth of 34
Born and died within year 13, 37
Death of 34
Filing requirements 8
Earned income, unearned
income, and gross income
levels (T able 1-2) 7
Married, filing joint return 26, 30
Qualifying child 28
Qualifying relative 33
Social security number 13
Adoption taxpayer
identification number 13,
37
Alien dependents 37
Standard deduction for 93
Dependents not allowed to claim
dependents 26
Depletion allowance 72
Deposits:
Loss on 102
Depreciation:
Home computer 102
Differential wage payments 48
Differential wages:
Wages for reservists:
Military reserves 52
Direct deposit of refunds 15
Directors' fees 75
Disabilities, persons with:
Accrued leave payment 53
Armed Forces 52
Blind (See Blind persons)
Cafeteria plans 53
Credit for (See Elderly or
disabled, credit for)
Insurance costs 53
Military and government
pensions 53
Public assistance benefits 73
Reporting of disability pension
income 53
Retirement, pensions, and
profit-sharing plans 53
Signing of return by
court-appointed
representative 14
Social security and railroad
retirement benefits,
deductions for 66
Workers’ compensation 54
Disabled:
Child 28
Dependent 34
Disaster Assistance Act of 1988:
Withholding 40
Disaster relief 54, 73
(See also T errorist attacks)
Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act:
Grants 73
Unemployment assistance 72
Grants or payments 73
Disclosure statement 20
Discount, bonds and notes issued
at 60
Distributions:
Qualified charitable 85
Required minimum
distributions 83, 85
(See also Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs))
Dividends:
Alaska Permanent Fund
(See Alaska Permanent Fund
dividends)
Fees to collect 102
Stockholder debts when canceled
as 67
Divorced parents 29, 33
Divorced taxpayers 74
(See also Alimony)
Child custody 29
Estimated tax payments 44
Filing status 21, 22
IRAs 80, 84
Real estate taxes, allocation
of 98
Domestic help:
Withholding 37
Domestic help, can’t be claimed
as dependent 26
Donations (See Charitable
contributions)
Down payment assistance 74
Dual-status taxpayers 8
Joint returns not available 23
Standard deduction 92
Due dates 10, 11
2024 dates (T able 1-5) 11
Extension (See Extension of time
to file)
Nonresident aliens’ returns 11
Dues:
Club 103
Dwelling units:
Cooperative (See Cooperative
housing)
E
E-file 3, 6, 8
Extensions of time to file 11
On time filing 11
Early withdrawal from deferred
interest account:
Higher education expenses,
exception from penalty 78
IRAs:
Early distributions, defined 87
Penalties 85, 87
Earned income:
Defined:
For purposes of standard
deduction 93
Dependent filing requirements
(T able 1-2) 7
Earned income credit 108
Filing claim 8
Married filing separately 23
Education:
Savings bond program 59
Education credits:
Married filing separately 23
Education expenses:
Employer-provided
(See Educational assistance)
T uition (See Qualified tuition
programs)
Publication 17 (2025) 131

[PAGE 134]
Page 134 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Educational assistance:
Employer-provided 49
Scholarships (See Scholarships
and fellowships)
T uition (See Qualified tuition
programs)
EIC (See Earned income credit)
Elderly or disabled, credit for:
Married filing separately 23
Elderly persons:
Credit for (See Elderly or
disabled, credit for)
Exemption from withholding 39
Home for the aged 35
Long-term care (See Long-term
care insurance contracts)
Nutrition Program for the
Elderly 74
Standard deduction for age 65 or
older 92
T ax Counseling for the Elderly 10
Election precinct officials:
Fees, reporting of 75
Elective deferrals:
Limits 51
Electronic filing (See E-file)
Electronic payment options 3
Electronic reporting:
Returns (See E-file)
Embezzlement:
Reporting embezzled funds 76
Emergency medical service
personnel:
Life insurance proceeds when
death in line of duty 70
Emotional distress damages 74
Employee benefits 48, 49
(See also Fringe benefits)
Employee business expenses:
Reimbursements 39, 47
Returning excess 39
Employee expenses:
Home computer 102
Miscellaneous 101
Employees 39, 48, 49
(See also Fringe benefits)
Awards for service 47
Business expenses
(See Employee business
expenses)
Form W-4 to be filled out when
starting new job 38
Fringe benefits 39
Jury duty pay 76
Overseas employment
(See Foreign employment)
Employers:
Educational assistance from
(See Educational assistance)
Form W-4, having new employees
fill out 38
Overseas employment
(See Foreign employment)
Withholding rules 38
Employment:
Agency fees 74
T axes 48
(See also Social security and
Medicare taxes)
FICA withholding 12
(See also Withholding)
Employment taxes 37, 38, 44
Endowment proceeds 69
Energy assistance 74
Energy conservation:
Measures and modifications 74
Subsidies 74
Utility rebates 77
Equitable relief (See Innocent
spouse relief)
Errors:
Corrected wage and tax
statement 44
Discovery after filing, need to
amend return 18
Refunds 18
Escrow:
T axes placed in, when
deductible 98
Estate beneficiaries:
IRAs (See Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs))
Losses of estate 75
Receiving income from estate 75
Estate tax:
Deduction 100
Estates 75
(See also Estate beneficiaries)
Income 75
T ax 100, 104
(See also Estate tax)
Estimated:
Credit for 44
Payment vouchers 43
Estimated tax 37
Amount to pay to avoid
penalty 42
Avoiding 41
Change in estimated tax 42
Credit for 37, 44
Definition 37
Divorced taxpayers 44
Figuring amount of tax 42
First period, no income subject to
estimated tax in 42
Fiscal-year taxpayers 42
Married taxpayers 41
Name change 44
Not required 41
Overpayment applied to 15
Payment vouchers 43
Payments 16, 43
Figuring amount of each
payment 42
Schedule 42
When to start 42
Who must make 41
Penalty for underpayment 37, 42,
45
Saturday, Sunday, holiday rule 42
Separate returns 44
Social security or railroad
retirement benefits 63
State and local income taxes,
deduction of 96
Unemployment compensation 73
Excise taxes 85
(See also Penalties)
Deductibility (T able 11-1) 99
IRAs for failure to take minimum
distributions 85
Roth IRAs 90
Exclusions from gross income:
Accelerated death benefits 70
Canceled debt 69
Commuting benefits for
employees 50
De minimis benefits 49
Disability pensions of federal
employees and military 53
Education Savings Bond
Program 76
Educational assistance from
employer 49
Elective deferrals, limit on
exclusion 51
Employee awards 47
Energy conservation
subsidies 74, 77
Foreign earned income 3
Frozen deposit interest 76
Group-term life insurance 50
Long-term care insurance
contracts 54
Parking fees,
employer-provided 50
Public safety officers who died or
were killed in line of duty,
death benefits 70
Sale of home 77
Scholarships 77
Strike benefits 77
Executors and administrators 7
Exempt-interest dividends 56
Exemptions:
From withholding 39
Expenses paid by another 75
Extension of time to file 11
Automatic 11
Citizens outside U.S. 11
E-file options 11
Inclusion on return 11
F
Failure to comply with tax laws
(See Penalties)
Fair rental value 35
Family 8, 109
(See also Child tax credit)
(See also Children)
Farmers:
Estimated tax 41
Withholding 37
Farming:
Activities not engaged in for
profit 74
Canceled debt, treatment of 69
Federal employees:
Accrued leave payment 48
Cost-of-living allowances 48
Disability pensions 53
Based on years of service 53
Exclusion, conditions for 53
T errorist attack 54
FECA payments 54
Federal Employees’
Compensation Act (FECA)
payments 54
Federal government:
Employees (See Federal
employees)
Federal income tax:
Not deductible 100
Deductibility (T able 11-1) 99
Federal judges:
Employer retirement plan
coverage 80
Fees 75
(See also specific types of
deductions and income)
Professional license 104
Fellowships (See Scholarships and
fellowships)
FICA withholding 12, 37, 48
(See also Social security and
Medicare taxes)
(See also Withholding)
Fiduciaries 7, 79
(See also Executors and
administrators)
(See also T rustees)
Fees for services 75
Prohibited transactions 86
Figuring taxes and credits 63, 106
(See also Worksheets)
Filing requirements 6-21, 23
(See also Married filing separately)
Calendar year filers 10
Citizens outside U.S. 7
Dependents 7, 8
Electronic (See E-file)
Extensions 11
Gross income levels
(T able 1-1) 6
Individual taxpayers 7
Joint filing 22
(See also Joint returns)
Late filing penalties
(See Penalties)
Most taxpayers (T able 1-1) 6
Unmarried persons (See Single
taxpayers)
When to file 10
Where to file 16
Who must file 7, 8
Filing status 7, 21-26
Annulled marriages 21
Change to, after time of filing 18
Divorced taxpayers 21
Head of household 21, 24
Qualifying person to file as 24
Joint returns 22
Married filing separately 23
Surviving spouse 21
Unmarried persons 7, 21
(See also Single taxpayers)
Final return for decedent:
Standard deduction 92
Financial institutions 79
(See also Banks)
Financially disabled persons 19
Fines 11, 20, 21
(See also Penalties)
Deductibility 103
Firefighters:
Life insurance proceeds when
death in line of duty 70
Volunteer firefighters:
IRAs 80
Fiscal year 12, 42
Fishermen:
Indian fishing rights 76
Fishers:
Estimated tax 41
Food benefits:
Nutrition program for the
elderly 74
Food stamps 35
Foreign employment 8, 52
Employment abroad 52
Social security and Medicare
taxes 52
U.S. citizen 52
Waiver of alien status 52
Foreign governments, employees
of 52
Foreign income:
Earned income exclusion 3
Reporting of 3
Foreign income taxes:
Deduction of 97
Form 1116 to claim credit 100
Schedule A or Form 1040 or
1040-SR reporting 100
Definition of 96
Foreign nationals (See Resident
aliens)
Foreign students 28
Forgiveness of debt
(See Cancellation of debt)
Form 11, 51, 62
1040 26, 108
Alien taxpayer identification
numbers 37
Armed Forces’ retirement
pay 52
Child care providers 47
Clergy pension 51
Corporate director fees 75
Disability retirement pay 53
FECA benefits 54
Foster-care providers 75
Kickbacks 76
132 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 135]
Page 135 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Form (Cont.)
Notary fees 75
Oil, gas, or mineral interest
royalties 72
Rental income and
expenses 71
Wages and salary
reporting 47
Workers’ compensation 54
1040 or 1040-SR:
Address 16
Attachments to 14
IRAs 86, 88
Presidential Election
Campaign Fund 14
Railroad retirement benefits,
reporting on 63
Social security benefits,
reporting on 63
Use of 22, 23
1040 or 1040-SR, Schedule A:
Charitable contributions 16
1040 or 1040-SR,
Schedule SE 8
1040-NR:
Nonresident alien return 11
1040-X:
Amended individual return 18
Annulled marriages 21
Change of filing status 23
Completing 18
Filing 18
Itemized deduction, change to
standard deduction 94
Standard deduction, change
to itemized deductions 94
1040, Schedule A:
Unearned commission,
deduction for repayment
of 47
1040, Schedule C:
Barter income 67
Child care providers 47
Corporate director fees 75
Forgiveness of debts 67
Foster-care providers 75
Kickbacks 76
Notary fees 75
Oil, gas, or mineral interest
royalties 72
Rental income and
expenses 71
1040, Schedule E:
Royalties 72
1040, Schedule SE 51
1065:
Partnership income 70
1098:
Mortgage interest
statement 70
1099:
T axable income report 12
1099-B:
Barter income 67
1099-C:
Cancellation of debt 67
1099-DIV:
Dividend income
statement 51
1099-G:
State tax refunds 70
1099-INT 56, 61
1099-MISC:
Nonemployee
compensation 75
1099-OID 60
1099-R 59
IRA distributions 86, 88
Life insurance policy
surrendered for cash 69
Retirement plan
distributions 14
1120S:
S corporation income 70
2555 110
2848:
Power of attorney and
declaration of
representative 14, 23
3800:
General business credit 19
4506 17
4506-T:
T ax return transcript
request 17
4868 11, 37
Automatic extension of time to
file 11, 37
Filing electronic form 11
Filing paper form 11
5329:
Required minimum
distributions, failure to
take 88
56:
Notice Concerning Fiduciary
Relationship 14
6251 107
8275:
Disclosure statement 20
8275-R:
Regulation disclosure
statement 20
8379:
Injured spouse claim 15
8606:
IRA contributions,
Nondeductible 78, 82, 86
IRA contributions,
Recharacterization of 85
8615 55
8814 55
8815 59
8822:
Change of address 18
8839:
Qualified adoption
expenses 49
8853:
Accelerated death
benefits 70
Archer MSAs and long-term
care insurance
contracts 49
8857:
Innocent spouse relief 22
8879:
Authorization for E-file
provider to use
self-selected PIN 10
9465:
Installment agreement
request 16
Form 8919:
Uncollected social security
and Medicare tax on
wages 47
RRB-1042S:
Railroad retirement benefits
for nonresident aliens 62
RRB-1099:
Railroad retirement
benefits 62
SS-5:
Social security number
request 13, 36
SSA-1042S:
Social security benefits for
nonresident aliens 62
SSA-1099:
Social security benefits 62
W-2:
Election precinct officials'
fees 75
Employer retirement plan
participation indicated 80
Employer-reported income
statement 12, 14, 47, 48,
51
Fringe benefits 48, 49
W-2G:
Gambling winnings
withholding statement 76
W-4V:
Voluntary withholding
request 73
W-7:
Individual taxpayer
identification number
request 37
W-7A:
Adoption taxpayer
identification number
request 13, 37
Form 1040:
Estimated tax payments 44
Gambling winnings 40
Overpayment offset against next
year’s tax 43
Form 1040 or 1040-SR:
Foreign income taxes, deduction
of 100
Schedule A:
State and local income taxes,
deduction of 100
State benefit funds,
mandatory contributions
to 97
T axes, deduction of 100
Schedule C:
Real estate or personal
property taxes on property
used in business,
deduction of 100
Schedule E:
Real estate or personal
property taxes on rental
property, deduction of 100
Schedule F:
Real estate or personal
property taxes on property
used in business,
deduction of 100
Self-employment tax, deduction
of 100
Form 1040-ES:
Estimated tax 42, 43
Form 1099-K:
Payment card and third-party
network transactions 77
Form 1099-MISC:
Withheld state and local taxes 96
Form 1099-NEC:
Withheld state and local taxes 96
Form 1099-R:
Withheld state and local taxes
shown on 96
Form 1099-S:
Real estate transactions
proceeds 98
Form 1116:
Foreign tax credit 100
Form 8332:
Release of exemption to
noncustodial parent 29
Form W-2:
Employer-reported income
statement 44
Filing with return 44
Separate form from each
employer 44
Withheld state and local taxes 96
Form W-2c:
Corrected wage and tax
statement 44
Form W-2G:
Gambling winnings withholding
statement 40, 44
Withheld state and local taxes
shown on 96
Form W-4:
Employee withholding allowance
certificate 38, 41
Form W-4S:
Sick pay withholding request 40
Form W-4V 40
Unemployment compensation,
voluntary withholding
request 40
Form(s) 1099 44
Foster care:
Care providers' payments 75
Child tax credit 109
Difficulty-of-care payments 75
Emergency foster care,
maintaining space in home
for 75
Foster care payments and
expenses 30, 35
Foster child 28, 30, 34, 35
Foster Grandparent Program 53
Found property 75
Fraud:
Penalties 20, 39
Reporting anonymously to IRS 3
Fringe benefits:
Accident and health
insurance 48
Accounting period 48
Adoption, employer
assistance 49
Archer MSA contributions 49
De minimis benefits 49
Education assistance 49
Form W-2 48
Group-term life insurance
premiums 49
Holiday gifts 49
Retirement planning services 50
T axable income 48
T ransportation 50
Withholding 39
Frozen deposits:
Interest on 76
IRA rollover period extension 83
Funeral expenses 36
Funerals:
Clergy, payment for 51
Expenses 102
G
Gains and losses 23
(See also Losses)
Claim for refund for loss 19
Gambling 105
Hobby losses 76
Passive activity 23
Gambling winnings and
losses 75, 105
Withholding 40, 44
Garbage pickup:
Deductibility (T able 11-1) 99
Garnishment and attachment 13
Gas royalties 72
Gems:
IRA prohibited transactions in 86
General due dates, estimated
tax 42
GI Bill benefits 36
Gift taxes:
Not deductible 100
Gifts:
Holiday gifts 49
Not taxed 76
T o reduce the public debt 16
Publication 17 (2025) 133

[PAGE 136]
Page 136 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Gold and silver:
IRA investments in 86
Government employees:
Federal (See Federal employees)
Grants, disaster relief 73
Gratuities (See Tip income)
Gross income:
Age, higher filing threshold after
65 7
Defined 7
Filing requirements
(T able 1-1) 6
Dependent filing requirements
(T able 1-2) 7
Gross income test 34
Group-term life insurance:
Accidental death benefits 49
Definition 49
Exclusion from income 50
Limitation on 49
Permanent benefits 49
T axable cost, calculation of 49
Guam:
Income from 8
H
Handicapped persons
(See Disabilities, persons with)
Head of household 21, 24
Health:
Flexible spending
arrangement 49
Health insurance 48
(See also Accident insurance)
Reimbursement arrangement 49
Savings account 49
Health coverage tax credit 8
Health insurance premiums 36
Health Spa 103
Help (See T ax help)
High income taxpayers:
Estimated tax 41
Hobbies 102
Activities not engaged in for
profit 74
Losses 76
Holiday gifts 49
Holiday, deadline falling on 42
Home:
Aged, home for 35
Cost of keeping up 24
Worksheet 24
Security system 103
Homeowners' associations:
Charges 100
Deductibility (T able 11-1) 99
Hope credit:
Married filing separately 23
Host 69
Household furnishings:
Antiques (See Collectibles)
Household members 21
(See also Head of household)
Household workers (See Domestic
help)
Household workers, can’t claim as
dependent 26
Housing 24
(See also Home)
Clergy 51
Cooperative (See Cooperative
housing)
I
Icons, use of 3, 4
Identity theft 2, 21
Illegal activities:
Reporting of 76
Income 47, 66, 74
(See also Alimony)
(See also Wages and salaries)
Bartering 67
Canceled debts 67
Constructive receipt of 12, 13, 61
Gross 34
Illegal activities 77
Interest 54
Jury duty pay 76
Life insurance proceeds 69
Nonemployee compensation 75
Paid to agent 13
Paid to third party 13
Partnership 70
Prepaid 13
Recovery 70
Royalties 72
S corporation 70
T ax exempt 35
Underreported 18
Income taxes:
Federal (See Federal income tax)
Foreign (See Foreign income
taxes)
State or local (See State or local
income taxes)
Income-producing expenses 102
Indians:
Fishing rights 76
T axes collected by tribal
governments, deduction of 96
Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs) 77, 78,
83, 88
(See also Rollovers)
(See also Roth IRAs)
Administrative fees 79, 102
Age 59 1/2 for distribution 87
Exception to rule 87
Age 72:
Distributions required at 85,
87
Compensation, defined 78
Contribution limits 79
Age 50 or older, 79
Under age 50, 79
Contributions 23
Designating year for which
contribution is made 79
Excess 86
Filing before contribution is
made 79
Nondeductible 82
Not required annually 79
Roth IRA contribution for same
year 89
Time of 79
Withdrawal before filing due
date 85
Cost basis 82, 85
Deduction for 79
Participant covered by
employer retirement plan
(T able 9-1) 81
Participant not covered by
employer retirement plan
(T able 9-2) 81
Phaseout 80
Definition of 78
Distributions:
At age 59 1/2 87
Required minimum
distributions (See this
heading: Required
distributions)
Divorced taxpayers 84
Early distributions (See Early
withdrawal from deferred
interest account)
Employer retirement plan
participants 80
Establishing account 78
Time of 79
Where to open account 79
Excess contributions 86
Figuring modified AGI (Worksheet
9-1) 82
Forms to use:
Form 1099-R for reporting
distributions 86
Form 8606 for nondeductible
contributions 78
Inherited IRAs 76, 82, 83
Required distributions 85
Interest on, treatment of 78
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal
IRAs 79, 80
Married couples (See this
heading: Kay Bailey Hutchison
Spousal IRAs)
Modified adjusted gross income
(MAGI):
Computation of 80
Effect on deduction if covered
by employer retirement
plan (T able 9-1) 81
Effect on deduction if not
covered by employer
retirement plan
(T able 9-2) 81
Worksheet 9-1 82
Nondeductible contributions 82
Early withdrawal 87
T ax on earnings on 82
Ordinary income, distributions
as 85
Penalties 86
Early distributions (See Early
withdrawal from deferred
interest account)
Excess contributions 86
Form 8606 not filed for
nondeductible
contributions 78, 82
Overstatement of
nondeductible
contributions 82
Prohibited transactions 86
Required distributions, failure
to take 85, 87
Prohibited transactions 86
Recharacterization of
contribution 84
Reporting of:
Distributions 86
Recharacterization of
contributions 85
Required distributions 83, 85
Excess accumulations 87
Retirement savings contribution
credit 23
Self-employed persons 78
T axability 87
Distributions 85
Time of taxation 78
T ransfers permitted 83
T o Roth IRAs 83, 84
T rustee administrative fees 102
T rustee-to-trustee transfers 83
IRA to Roth IRA 90
T ypes of 79
Withdrawals 85, 86
Early (See Early withdrawal
from deferred interest
account)
Required (See this heading:
Required distributions)
Withholding 14, 40, 86
Individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN) 13, 37
Individual taxpayers (See Single
taxpayers)
Information returns 12, 14, 47, 48,
51
(See also Form 1099)
(See also Form W-2)
Partnerships to provide 70
Inheritance 75
(See also Estate beneficiaries)
IRAs (See Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs))
Not taxed 76
Inheritance tax:
Deductibility of 100
Deduction 100
Injured spouse 15
Claim for refund 15
Innocent spouse relief:
Form 8857 22
Joint returns 22
Insolvency:
Canceled debt not deemed to be
income 69
Installment agreements 16
Insurance:
Accident (See Accident
insurance)
Life 40, 49
(See also Group-term life
insurance)
(See also Life insurance)
Reimbursements:
From casualty insurance 74
Insurance companies:
State delinquency proceedings,
IRA distributions not made
due to 87
Insurance premiums:
Life 36, 103
Medical 36
Paid in advance 57
Insurance proceeds:
Dividends, interest on 56
Installment payments 60
Life 60
Interest:
Fees to collect 102
Frozen deposits 57
Usurious 57
Interest income 54
Form 1099-INT 12
Frozen deposits, from 76
Recovery of income, on 70
Savings bonds 76
(See also U.S. savings bonds)
T ax refunds, from 18
Interest payments 70
(See also Mortgages)
Canceled debt including 67
Student loans deduction 23
Interference with business
operations:
Damages as income 74
Internal Revenue Service (IRS):
Fraud or misconduct of employee,
reporting anonymously 3
International employment
(See Foreign employment)
International organizations,
employees of 52
Internet:
Electronic filing over (See E-file)
Investments:
Fees 102
Seminars 103
IRAs (See Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs))
Itemized deductions:
Changing from standard to
itemized deduction (or vice
versa) 94
Choosing to itemize 93, 94
Form 1040 to be used 71
134 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 137]
Page 137 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Itemized deductions (Cont.)
Married filing separately 23, 94
One spouse has itemized 92
Recovery 71
Standard deduction to be
compared with 93
State tax, for 94
ITIN (See Individual taxpayer
identification number (ITIN))
ITINs (See Individual taxpayer
identification number (ITIN))
J
Job search:
Deduction of expenses for
Interviews 76
Joint accounts 55
Joint return test 26, 30
Joint returns:
Accounting period 22
After separate return 23
Deceased spouse 22
Dependents on 34
Divorced taxpayers 22
Estimated tax 41
Extension for citizens outside
U.S. 12
Filing status 22
Fraud penalty 20
Guardian of spouse, signing
as 22
Injured spouse 15
Innocent spouse 22
Nonresident or dual-status alien
spouse 23
Responsibility for 22
Separate return after joint 23
Signing 15, 22
Social security and railroad
retirement benefits 66
State and local income taxes,
deduction of 97
Judges, federal:
Employer retirement plan
coverage 80
Jury duty pay 76
K
Kickbacks 76
Kiddie tax (See Children,
subheading: Unearned income of)
Kidnapped children:
Qualifying child 29
Qualifying relative 33
L
Labor unions 40
Dues and fees 77
Sick pay withholding under union
agreements 40
Strike and lockout benefits 77
Unemployment compensation
payments from 73
Late filing 3
Penalties 11, 20
Late payment:
Penalties on tax payments 20
Law enforcement officers:
Life insurance proceeds when
death in line of duty 70
Legal expenses 102, 104
Liability insurance:
Reimbursements from 74
License fees:
Deductibility of 100
Nondeductibility of 103
Life insurance 49, 70
(See also Accelerated death
benefits)
(See also Group-term life insurance)
Form 1099-R for surrender of
policy for cash 69
Premiums 103
Proceeds 60
As income 69
Public safety officers who died or
were killed in line of duty, tax
exclusion 70
Surrender of policy for cash 69
Withholding 40
Life insurance premiums 36
Lifetime learning credit:
Married filing separately 23
Limits:
Miscellaneous deductions 101
Loans 19
(See also Debts)
Lobbying expenses 103
Local assessments:
Deductibility of 99
Local income taxes, itemized
deductions 94
Local law violated 34
Lockout benefits 77
Lodging 35
Long-term care insurance
contracts 54
Chronically ill individual 54, 70
Exclusion, limit of 54
Qualified services defined 54
Losses 19, 23
(See also Gains and losses)
Capital 23
Casualty 102, 104
Gambling (See Gambling
winnings and losses)
Theft 102, 104
Lost property 103
Lotteries and raffles 75
(See also Gambling winnings and
losses)
M
MAGI (See Modified adjusted gross
income (MAGI))
Married dependents, filing joint
return 26, 30
Married filing separately 23
Community property states 23
Credits, treatment of 23
Deductions:
Changing method from or to
itemized deductions 94
T reatment of 23
Earned income credit 23
How to file 23
Itemized deductions 23, 94
One spouse has itemized so
other must as well 92
Joint state and local income taxes
filed, but separate federal
returns 97
Rollovers 23
Social security and railroad
retirement benefits 63
State and local income taxes 96
T enants by the entirety, allocation
of real estate taxes 98
Married taxpayers 22-24
(See also Joint returns)
(See also Married filing separately)
Age 65 or older spouse:
Standard deduction 93
Blind spouse:
Standard deduction 93
Deceased spouse 6, 7, 21, 22
(See also Surviving spouse)
Dual-status alien spouse 23
Estimated tax 41
Filing status 6, 7, 22
IRAs 79
Spouse covered by employer
plan 79, 80
Living apart 22
Nonresident alien spouse 13, 23
Roth IRAs 88
Signatures when spouse unable
to sign 15
Social security or railroad
retirement benefits,
taxability 62
Mass transit passes,
employer-provided 50
Medical and dental expenses:
Reimbursements, treatment
of 54
Medical insurance (See Accident
insurance)
Medical insurance premiums 36
Medical savings accounts
(MSAs) 49, 76
(See also Archer MSAs)
Medicare Advantage MSA 76
Medicare 48, 52
(See also Social security and
Medicare taxes)
Benefits 73
Medicare Advantage MSA
(See Medical savings
accounts (MSAs))
Medicare taxes, not support 36
Member of household or
relationship test 34
Mentally incompetent persons 53
(See also Disabilities, persons with)
Signing of return by
court-appointed
representative 14
Mexico:
Resident of 27, 33
Military (See Armed forces)
Mineral royalties 72
Ministers (See Clergy)
Miscellaneous deductions 101
Missing children:
Photographs of, included in IRS
publications 3
Mistakes (See Errors)
Modified adjusted gross income
(MAGI):
IRAs, computation for:
Effect on deduction if covered
by employer retirement
plan (T able 9-1) 81, 82
Effect on deduction if not
covered by employer
retirement plan
(T able 9-2) 81
Worksheet 9-1 82
Roth IRAs, computation for 88
Phaseout (T able 9-3) 88
Worksheet 9-2 88
Money market certificates 56
Mortgage:
Relief 67
Mortgages:
Assistance payments 73
Discounted mortgage loan 67
Interest:
Refund of 70
MSAs (See Medical savings
accounts (MSAs))
Multiple support agreement 36
Municipal bonds 60
Mutual funds:
Nonpublicly offered 102
N
Name change 13, 44
National Housing Act:
Mortgage assistance 73
National of the United States 28
Native Americans (See Indians)
Negligence penalties 20
Net operating losses:
Refund of carryback 19
New Jersey Nonoccupational
Disability Benefit Fund 97
New Jersey Unemployment
Compensation Fund 97
New York Nonoccupational
Disability Benefit Fund 97
Nobel Prize 76
Nominees 56, 60
Nonemployee compensation 75
Nonresident aliens 8
Due dates 11
Estimated tax 41
Individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN) 13
Spouse 13
Joint returns not available 23
Separated 24
Standard deduction 92
T axpayer identification
number 37
Waiver of alien status 52
Northern Mariana Islands:
Income from 8
Not-for-profit activities 74
Notary fees 75
Notes:
Discounted 48, 60
Received for services 48
Nursing homes:
Insurance for care in (See Longterm care insurance contracts)
Nutrition Program for the
Elderly 74
O
OASDI 73
Occupational taxes:
Deduction of:
T axes that are deductible
(T able 11-1) 99
Office rent, deductibility of 102
Offset against debts 9, 15
Oil, gas, and minerals:
Future production sold 72
Royalties from 72
Schedule C or C-EZ 72
Sale of property interest 72
Options 51
Ordinary gain and loss (See Gains
and losses)
Original issue discount (OID) 60
Other taxes 107
Outplacement services 48
Overpayment of tax 15
(See also T ax refunds)
Overseas work (See Foreign
employment)
Overtime 76
Overtime pay 39
P
Paper vs. electronic return (See Efile)
Paperwork Reduction Act of
1980 3
Parental responsibility
(See Children)
Parents who never married 30
Parents, divorced or
separated 29
Parking fees:
Employer-provided fringe benefit:
Exclusion from income 50
Partners and partnerships 102
Income 70
Publication 17 (2025) 135

[PAGE 138]
Page 138 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Pass-through entities 102
Passive activity:
Losses 23
Patents:
Infringement damages 74
Royalties 72
Payment of estimated tax 43
By check or money order 43
Credit an overpayment 43
Payment of tax 3, 10, 15, 16, 19, 43
By credit or debit card 11
Delivery services 11
Estimated tax 16
Installment agreements
(See Installment agreements)
Late payment penalties 20
Payments 107, 108
Disaster relief 73
Payroll deductions 100
Payroll taxes 48
(See also Social security and
Medicare taxes)
Peace Corps allowances 52
Penalties 42, 45
Accuracy-related 20
Backup withholding 40
Civil penalties 19
Criminal 21
Deductibility 103
Defenses 20
Estimated tax (See this heading:
Underpayment of estimated
tax)
Failure to include social security
number 14, 20
Failure to pay tax 20
Form 8606 not filed for
nondeductible IRA
contributions 78, 82
Fraud 20, 21
Frivolous tax submission 20
Interest on 16
IRAs 86
Early distributions 87
Excess contributions 86
Form 8606 not filed for
nondeductible
contributions 78, 82
Overstatement of
nondeductible
contributions 82
Required distributions, failure
to take 85
Late filing 11, 20
Exception 20
Late payment 20
Negligence 20
Reportable transaction
understatements 20
Roth IRAs:
Conversion contributions
withdrawn in 5-year
period 91
Excess contributions 90
Substantial understatement of
income tax 20
T ax evasion 21
Underpayment of estimated
tax 37, 42, 45
Willful failure to file 21
Withholding 39, 40
Pennsylvania Unemployment
Compensation Fund 97
Pensions 37, 62
(See also Railroad retirement
benefits)
Clergy 51
Contributions:
Retirement savings
contribution credit 23
T axation of 51
Decedent’s unrecovered
investment in 14
Disability pensions 53
Elective deferral limitation 51
Employer plans:
Benefits from previous
employer's plan 80
Rollover to IRA 84, 90
Situations in which no
coverage 80
Inherited pensions 76
Military (See Armed Forces)
Unrecovered investment in 105
Withholding 14, 40
Per capita taxes:
Deductibility of 100
Personal exemption 37
Personal injury suits:
Damages from 74
Personal property:
Rental income from 71
Personal property taxes:
Deduction of 100
Schedule A, C, E, or F (Form
1040) 100
T axes (See Personal property
taxes)
Personal representatives
(See Fiduciaries)
Persons with disabilities
(See Disabilities, persons with)
Place for filing 16
Political campaign expenses 103,
104
Political contributions
(See Campaign contributions)
Power of attorney 14, 23
Premature distributions (See Early
withdrawal from deferred interest
account)
Prepaid:
Insurance 57
Preparers of tax returns 15
Presidential Election Campaign
Fund 14
Price reduced after purchase 69
Principal residence (See Home)
Privacy Act and Paperwork
Reduction information 3
Private delivery services 11
Prizes and awards 47, 76
(See also Bonuses)
Exclusion from income 47
Pulitzer, Nobel, and similar
prizes 76
Scholarship prizes 77
Professional license fees 104
Professional Reputation 104
Profit-sharing plans:
Withholding 14, 40
Property:
Found 75
Stolen 77
Public assistance benefits 73
Public debt:
Gifts to reduce 16
Public transportation passes,
employer-provided 50
Publications (See T ax help)
Puerto Rico:
Residents of 8
Pulitzer Prize 76
Punitive damages:
As income 74
Q
Qualified opportunity fund 76
Qualified plans 83
(See also Rollovers)
Qualified tuition programs 76
Qualifying child 28
Qualifying relative 33
R
Raffles 75
Railroad retirement
benefits 62-66, 76
Deductions related to 66
Employer retirement plans
different from 80
Equivalent tier 1 (social security
equivalent benefit
(SSEB)) 62, 76
Estimated tax 63
Form RRB-1042S for nonresident
aliens 62
Form RRB-1099 62
Joint returns 66
Lump-sum election 64
Married filing separately 23, 63
Repayment of benefits 63
Reporting of 63
T axability of 62, 63
Withholding 40
Not tax deductible 100
Withholding for 63
Railroad Unemployment
Insurance Act 54
Real estate:
Canceled business debt,
treatment of 69
Division of real estate taxes 97
Form 1099-S to report sale
proceeds 98
Itemized charges for services not
deductible 99
Real estate-related items not
deductible 99
T ransfer taxes 100
Real estate taxes:
Assessments (See Local
assessments)
Cooperative housing 97
deduction of 97
Deduction of:
List of deductible taxes
(T able 11-1) 99
Schedule A, C, E, or F (Form
1040) 100
Refund, treatment of 99
Rebates (See Refunds)
Recharacterization:
IRA contributions 84
Recordkeeping:
Gambling 105
Recordkeeping requirements 16
Basic records 17
Copies of returns 17
Electronic records 17
Gambling 75
Period of retention 17
Proof of payments 17
Why keep records 17
Recovery of amounts previously
deducted 70
Itemized deductions 71
Mortgage interest refund 70
Over multiple years 71
T ax refunds 70
Refunds 107
State tax 70
T axes (See T ax refunds)
Rehabilitative program
payments 52
Reimbursement 70
(See also Recovery of amounts
previously deducted)
Employee business expenses 47
Relationship test 28, 34
Relative, qualifying 33
Relief fund contributions 104
Religious organizations 8, 51
(See also Clergy)
Rental income and expenses:
Increase due to higher real estate
taxes 100
Deductibility (T able 11-1) 99
Losses from rental real estate
activities 23
Personal property rental 71
Repayments 71
Amount previously included in
income 105
Railroad retirement benefits 63
Social security benefits 63, 71
Unemployment
compensation 72, 73
Reporting:
Rollovers 84
Required minimum
distributions 83, 85
(See also Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs))
Rescue squad members:
Life insurance proceeds when
death in line of duty 70
Reservists:
IRAs 80
Repayments 79
Residency:
Home outside U.S. (See Citizens
outside U.S.)
Residency test 28
Resident aliens:
Estimated tax 41
IRA distributions, withholding
from 86
Social security number (SSN) 13
Spouse treated as 24
Retired Senior Volunteer
Program 53
Retirees:
Armed Forces:
T axable income 52
Retirement planning services 50
Retirement plans 23, 37, 62
(See also Railroad retirement
benefits)
(See also Roth IRAs)
Clergy 51
Contributions 51
Credit for (See Retirement
savings contribution credit)
T axation of 51
Decedent’s unrecovered
investment in 14
Disability pensions 53
Elective deferral limitation 51
Employer plans:
Benefits from previous
employer's plan 80
Rollover to IRA 84, 90
Situations in which no
coverage 80
Inherited pensions 76
IRAs (See Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs))
Military (See Armed Forces)
Withholding 14, 40
Retirement savings contribution
credit:
Adjusted gross income limit 23
Returns, tax (See T ax returns)
Rewards 77
Rhode Island Temporary Disability
Benefit Fund 97
Rollovers 83
Definition of 83
Excess due to incorrect rollover
information 87
From 403 plan to IRA 83
136 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 139]
Page 139 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Rollovers (Cont.)
From employer's plan to IRA 83,
84
From IRA to IRA 83
From IRA to Roth IRA 90
From Roth IRA to Roth IRA 91
From section 457 plan to IRA 83
From SIMPLE IRA to Roth
IRA 91
Inherited IRAs 83
Married filing separately 23
Partial rollovers 83
Reporting:
From employer's plan to
IRA 84
IRA to IRA 83
T axability 83, 88
Time limits (60-day rule) 83
T reatment of 83
Waiting period between 83
Roth IRAs 88-91
(See also Rollovers)
Age:
Distributions after age
59 1/2 91
No limit for contributions 88
No required distribution
age 91
Compensation, defined 88
Contribution limits 89
Age 50 or older, 89
Under age 50, 89
Contributions 88
No deduction for 88
Roth IRA only 89
Time to make 90
T o traditional IRA for same
year 89
Conversion 90
Definition of 88
Distributions:
Qualified distributions 91
Effect of modified AGI on
contributions (T able 9-3) 88
Establishing account 88
Excess contributions 90
IRA transfer to 83, 84
Modified adjusted gross income
(MAGI) 88
Computation (Worksheet
9-2) 88
Phaseout (T able 9-3) 88
Penalties:
Conversion contributions
withdrawn in 5-year
period 91
Excess contributions 90
Recharacterizations 84
Spousal contributions 88
T axability 91
Withdrawals 91
Excess contributions 90
Not taxable 91
Rounding off dollars 14
Royalties 72
S
S corporations 102
Shareholders 70
Safe deposit box 102
Salaries (See Wages and salaries)
Sale of home 77
Division of real estate taxes 97
Sale of property:
Personal items 77
Sales and exchanges:
Bonds 60
Saturday, deadline falling on 42
Savings:
Bonds 57, 61
Bonds used for education 59
Certificate 56, 60
Schedule 16, 47, 51, 54
(See also Form 1040)
(See also Form 1040 or 1040-SR)
Form 1040, A-F , R, SE (See Form
1040)
K-1:
Partnership income 70
S corporation income 70
K-1, Form 1041 55
Schedule A (Form 1040):
Itemized deductions 94
Schedules A–F , R, SE (Form 1040)
(See Form 1040)
Scholarships 30, 34, 36
Scholarships and fellowships:
Earned income including 93
Exclusion from gross income 77
T eaching or research
fellowships 77
Section 457 deferred
compensation plans:
Rollovers:
T o IRAs 84, 90
Securities:
Claim for refund 19
Options 51
Stock appreciation rights 48
Self-employed persons 100
(See also Self-employment tax)
Corporate directors as 75
Definition 8
Foreign government or
international organizations,
U.S. citizens employed by 8
Gross income 7
IRAs 78
Ministers 8
Nonemployee compensation 75
Self-employment tax:
Deduction of 100
List of deductible taxes
(T able 11-1) 99
Seminars:
Investment-related 103
Senior Companion Program 53
Separate returns (See Married filing
separately)
Separated parents 29, 33
Separated taxpayers 22
Filing status 23, 24
IRAs 80
Nonresident alien spouse 24
SEPs (See Simplified employee
pensions (SEPs))
Series EE and E savings
bonds 57
Series HH and H savings
bonds 57
Series I savings bonds 57
Service charges 102
Service Corps of Retired
Executives (SCORE) 53
Severance pay 48
Accrued leave payment 48
Outplacement services 48
Short tax year:
Change in annual accounting
period 92
Sick pay:
Collective bargaining
agreements 39
FECA payments 54
Income 48
Railroad Unemployment
Insurance Act 54
Withholding 39
Signatures 14
Agent, use of 14
Joint returns 22
Mentally incompetent 14
Parent for child 15
Physically disabled 14
Signing your return 9
Silver (See Gold and silver)
SIMPLE plans:
Rollover to Roth IRA 91
Simplified employee pensions
(SEPs):
IRAs as 79
Single taxpayers 22
Filing requirements 7
Filing status 7, 21, 22
Gross income filing requirements
(T able 1-1) 6
Social security and Medicare
taxes:
Support, not included in 36
Social security benefits 35, 62, 66
Deductions related to 66
Employer retirement plans
different from 80
Estimated tax 63
Foreign employer 52
Form SSA-1042S for nonresident
aliens 62
Form SSA-1099 62
IRAs for recipients of benefits 80
Joint returns 66
Lump-sum election 64
Married filing separately 23, 63
Paid by employer 48
Repayment of benefits 63, 71
Repayments 102
Reporting of 63
T axability of 62, 63
Withholding 40
Withholding for 63
Not deductible 100
Social security number (SSN) 13
Child's:
Number to be obtained at
birth 37
Child’s 2
Correspondence with IRS, include
SSN 14
Dependents 2, 13
Exception 13
Failure to include penalty 14
Form SS-5 to request number 13
Nonresident alien spouse 13
Resident aliens 13
Spouse 7, 13, 15, 21-23, 69
(See also Married taxpayers)
Spouse's death 93
SSN (See Social security number
(SSN))
Stamp taxes:
Real estate transactions and 100
Stamps (See Collectibles)
Standard deduction 92, 94
State:
Obligations, interest on 60
State or local governments:
Employees:
Unemployment
compensation 73
State or local income taxes 94
Deduction of 96
List of deductible taxes
(T able 11-1) 99
Schedule A (Form 1040) 100
Exception to deduction 96
Federal changes, effect on 19
Form W-2 to show withheld
taxes 96
Joint state and local returns but
federal returns filed
separately 97
Married filing separately 96
Refunds, treatment of 96, 97
State or local taxes:
Refunds 70
Statute of limitations:
Claim for refund 15
Claim for refunds 18
Stillborn child 28
Stock appreciation rights 48
Stock bonus plans 40
Stock options 51
Stockholders 19
(See also Securities)
Debts 67
Stockholders' meeting
expenses 104
Stocks 19
(See also Securities)
Stolen funds:
Reporting of 77
Stolen property 77
Strike benefits 77
Student loans:
Cancellation of debt 67
Interest deduction:
Married filing separately 23
Students:
Defined 28
Exemption from withholding 39
Foreign 28
Loans (See Student loans)
Scholarships (See Scholarships
and fellowships)
T uition programs, qualified
(See Qualified tuition
programs)
Substitute forms 12
Sunday, deadline falling on 42
Supplemental wages 39
Support test:
Qualifying child 30
Qualifying relative 34
Surviving spouse:
Filing status 21
With dependent child 25
Gross income filing requirements
(T able 1–1) 6
Life insurance proceeds paid
to 69
Single filing status 22
T ax (See Estate tax)
Surviving Spouse (See Surviving
spouse)
T
Tables and figures:
Estimated tax, who must make
payments (Figure 4-A) 42
Filing requirements:
Dependents (T able 1-2) 7
Gross income levels
(T able 1-1) 6
Head of household, qualifying
person (T able 2-1) 24
Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs):
Figuring modified AGI
(Worksheet 9-1) 82
Modified AGI, effect on
deduction if covered by
retirement plan at work
(T able 9 -1) 81
Modified AGI, effect on
deduction if not covered by
retirement plan at work
(T able 9-2) 81
Roth IRAs, effect of modified
AGI on contributions
(T able 9-3) 88
Roth IRAs, modified AGI
(Worksheet 9-2) 88
Publication 17 (2025) 137

[PAGE 140]
Page 140 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Tables and figures (Cont.)
Roth IRA and modified adjusted
gross income (MAGI)
phaseout (T able 9-3) 88
Standard deduction tables 95
T ax returns:
Due dates (T able 1-5) 11
T axes that are deductible
(T able 11-1) 99
Tax computation worksheet 123
Tax Counseling for the Elderly 10
Tax credits (See Credits)
Tax evasion 21
Tax figured by IRS 107
Tax help 3, 10, 127
T ax Counseling for the Elderly 10
Volunteer counseling (Volunteer
Income T ax Assistance
program) 10, 53
Tax preference items 107
Tax rates 22
Married filing separately
(Schedule Y-2) 23
Tax refunds:
Agreement with IRS extending
assessment period, claim
based on 19
Bad debts 19
Business tax credit
carrybacks 19
Claim for 18, 19
Limitations period 18
Litigation 19
Direct deposit 15
Erroneous refunds 18
Federal income tax refunds 70
Financially disabled 19
Foreign tax paid or accrued 19
General rules 9
Inquiries 10
Interest on 18, 19, 57
Late filed returns 3
Limits 19
Exceptions 19
More or less than expected 15
Net operating loss carryback 19
Offset:
Against debts 9, 15
Against next year’s tax 15
Offset against next year’s tax 43
Past-due 10, 18
Real estate taxes, treatment
of 99
Reduced 19
State and local income tax
refunds 96, 97
State liability, effect on 19
Under $1 15
Withholding 8
Worthless securities 19
Tax returns 11, 14, 22
(See also Due dates)
(See also Joint Returns)
(See also Signatures)
Aliens 8
Amended 18, 94
(See also Form 1040-X)
Attachments to returns 14
Child 15
Copies of 17
Dating of 14
Filing of 6
(See also Filing requirements)
Forms to use 8
Free preparation help 10
How to file 12
Paid preparer 15
Payment with 15
Private delivery services 11
Third party designee 14
Who must file 7, 8
Tax Returns:
T ranscript of 17
Tax table 111-122
Tax year 10, 12
(See also Accounting periods)
Tax-exempt:
Bonds and other obligations 60
Income 104
Interest 60
Tax-exempt income 35
Taxes 37, 96-100, 106
Alternative minimum 107
Business taxes, deduction of 96
Deduction of 96
Schedules to use 100
T ypes of taxes deductible
(T able 11-1) 99
Estate (See Estate tax)
Excise (See Excise taxes)
Federal income taxes, not
deductible 100
Foreign taxes 96
Income tax, deduction of 97
Gift taxes 100
How to figure
Income taxes, deduction of 96
Indian tribal government taxes,
deduction of 96
Inheritance tax 100
Kiddie tax (See Children,
subheading: Unearned
income of)
Not deductible 100
Personal property taxes:
Deduction of 100
Real estate taxes (See Real
estate taxes)
Taxes, not support 36
Taxpayer identification number
(TIN):
Adoption (ATIN) 13
Individual (ITIN) 13, 37
Social security number
(See Social security number
(SSN))
Telephones 104
Fraud or misconduct of IRS
employee, number for
reporting anonymously 3
Temporary absences 28, 34
Tenants:
By the entirety 56
In common 56
Tenants by the entirety:
Real estate taxes, allocation when
filing separately 98
Terminal illness:
Accelerated payment of life
insurance proceeds
(See Accelerated death
benefits)
Viatical settlements 70
Terrorist attacks:
Disability pensions for federal
employees 54
Theft losses 102, 104
Third parties:
Designee for IRS to discuss return
with 14
Income from taxpayer’s property
paid to 13
Tiebreaker rules 30
Tip income:
Allocated tips 39
Withholding 39
Underwithholding 39
Tips 77
Total support 35
Tour guides:
Free tour for organizing tour 75
Trade Act of 1974:
T rade readjustment allowances
under 72
Traditional IRAs (See Individual
retirement arrangements (IRAs))
Transfer taxes:
Real estate transactions and 100
Transit passes 50
Travel and transportation
expenses:
Commuting expenses:
Employer-provided commuter
vehicle 50
Expenses paid for others 104
Fringe benefits 50
Job search expenses 76
Parking fees:
Employer-provided fringe
benefit 50
School children, transporting
of 77
T ransit pass 50
Treasury bills, notes, and
bonds 59
Treasury Inspector General:
T elephone number to report
anonymously fraud or
misconduct of IRS
employee 3
Treasury notes 57
Trust beneficiaries:
Losses of trust 75
Receiving income from trust 75,
76
Trustees:
Administrative fees 102
IRA 102
IRAs:
Fees 79
T ransfer from trustee to
trustee 83, 90
Trusts 75
(See also T rust beneficiaries)
Grantor trusts 75
Income 75
TTY/TDD information 127
Tuition:
Qualified programs
(See Qualified tuition
programs)
Tuition programs, qualified
(See Qualified tuition programs)
Tuition, benefits under GI Bill 36
U
U.S. citizen or resident 27
U.S. national 28
U.S. obligations, interest 57
U.S. savings bonds:
Education, used for 23
Interest on 76
U.S. territories:
Deduction of income tax paid
to 97
Income from 8
U.S. Treasury bills, notes, and
bonds 59
U.S. Virgin Islands:
Income from 8
Underpayment penalties 37, 42,
45
IRS computation 45
Unearned income:
Children 55
Unearned income of child
(See Children, subheading:
Unearned income of)
Unemployment compensation 72
Credit card insurance paying 74
Mandatory contributions to state
funds, deduction of 97
Private fund, from 73
Repayment of benefits 72, 73
Reporting on Form 1040 73
Supplemental benefits 73
Voluntary benefit fund
contributions 104
Withholding 40, 73
Unions 40, 73, 77
(See also Labor unions)
Unmarried persons (See Single
taxpayers)
Usurious interest 57
Utilities:
Energy conservation
subsidies 74, 77
Rebates 77
V
Veterans benefits 52
Retroactive determination 53
Special statute of limitations. 54
Veterans' benefits:
Educational assistance 77
Viatical settlements 70
VISTA volunteers 53
Volunteer firefighters:
IRAs 80
Volunteer work 52
T ax counseling (Volunteer Income
T ax Assistance program) 10,
53
Vouchers for payment of tax 43
W
W-2 form (See Form W-2)
Wages and salaries 12, 47-54
(See also Form W-2)
Accident and health
insurance 48
Accrued leave payment 48
Adoption, employer
assistance 49
Advance commissions 47
Allowances and
reimbursements 39, 47
Archer MSA contributions 49
Awards and prizes 47
Babysitting 47
Back pay awards 47
Bonuses 47
Child care providers 47
Children’s earnings 8
Clergy 51
De minimis benefits 49
Elective deferrals 51
Employee achievement award 47
Employee compensation 47
Farmworkers 37
Foreign employer 52
Form W-2 (See Form W-2)
Fringe benefits 48
Garnished 13
Government cost-of-living
allowances 48
Household workers 37
Long-term care coverage 48
Military retirees 37, 52
Military service 52
Miscellaneous compensation 47
Note for services 48
Outplacement services 48
Religious orders 52
Restricted property 51
Dividends on restricted
stock 51
Retirement plan contributions by
employer 51
Severance pay 48
Sick pay 48, 54
138 Publication 17 (2025)

[PAGE 141]
Page 141 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Wages and salaries (Cont.)
Social security and Medicare
taxes paid by employer 48
Stock appreciation rights 48
Stock options 51
Supplemental 39
Volunteer work 52
Withholding (See Withholding)
War zone (See Combat zone)
Washington State Supplemental
Workmen's Compensation
Fund 97
Welfare benefits 35, 73
What’s new 1
Where to file 16
Winter energy payments 74
Withholding 12, 37
(See also Form W-2)
Agricultural Act of 1949
payments 40
Changing amount withheld 38
For 2027 38
Checking amount of 38
Claim for refund 8
Commodity credit loans 40
Credit for 37, 44
Cumulative wage method 38
Definition 37
Determining amount to
withhold 38
Disaster Assistance Act of 1988
payments 40
Employers, rules for 38
Exemption from 39
Federal income taxes, not
deductible 100
Form W-4:
Provided by employer 38
Fringe benefits 39
Gambling winnings 40, 44
General rules 37
Highest rate, employer must
withhold at if no W-4 39
Incorrect form 44
IRA distributions 86
New job 38
Penalties 37, 39, 40
Pensions and annuities 14, 40
Railroad retirement benefits 40,
63
Repaying withheld tax 39
Salaries and wages 37
Separate returns 44
Sick pay 39
Social security benefits 40, 63
State and local income taxes,
deduction for 96
Supplemental wages 39
Tips (See Tip income)
Unemployment
compensation 40, 73
Workers' compensation:
Mandatory contributions to state
funds, deduction of 97
Workers’ compensation 54
Return to work 54
Worksheets:
Head of household status and
cost of keeping up home 24
Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs),
modified AGI computation
(Worksheet 9-1) 82
Roth IRA modified adjusted gross
income (MAGI), computation
(Worksheet 9-2) 88
Social security or railroad
retirement benefits, to figure
taxability 63, 64
Support test 31
Wristwatch 104
Write-offs (See Cancellation of
debt)
Publication 17 (2025) 139

[PAGE 142]
Page 142 of 142  Fileid: … ication-17/2025/a/xml/cycle02/source 13:47 - 20-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Where To File
Mail your return to the address shown below that applies to you. If you want to use a private delivery service, see Private
delivery services in chapter 1.
TIP
Envelopes without enough postage will be returned to you by the post office. Y our envelope may need
additional postage if it contains more than five pages or is oversized (for example, it is over 1/4 inch thick). Also, include
your complete return address.
IF you live in...
THEN send your return to the address
below if you are requesting a refund or
are NOT enclosing a payment...
OR send your return to the address
below if you ARE enclosing a
payment (check or money order)...
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North
Carolina, South Carolina, T ennessee, T exas
Department of the T reasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P .O. Box 1214
Charlotte, NC 28201-1214
Alaska, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas,
Michigan, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota,
Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming
Department of the T reasury
Internal Revenue Service
Ogden, UT 84201-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P .O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000
Arizona, Arkansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma Department of the T reasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P .O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000
Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, New Y ork, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,
Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin
Department of the T reasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P .O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000
A foreign country, U.S. territory,* or use an APO or FPO
address, or file Form 2555 or 4563, or are a dual-status
alien
Department of the T reasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0215
Internal Revenue Service
P .O. Box 1303
Charlotte, NC 28201-1303
* If you live in American Samoa, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Northern Mariana Islands, see Pub. 570.
140 Publication 17 (2025)
